Abstract：The status and problems of upscaling research on perovskite solar cells, which must be addressed for commercialization efforts to be successful, are investigated. An 804 cm2 perovskite solar module has been reported with 17.9% efficiency, which is significantly lower than the champion perovskite solar cell efficiency of 25.2% reported for a 0.09 cm2 aperture area. For the realization of upscaling high‐quality perovskite solar cells, the upscaling and development history of conventional silicon, copper indium gallium sulfur/selenide and CdTe solar cells, which are already commercialized with modules of sizes up to ≈25 000 cm2, are reviewed. GaAs, organic, dye‐sensitized solar cells and perovskite/silicon tandem solar cells are also reviewed. The similarities of the operating mechanisms between the various solar cells and the origin of different development pathway are investigated, and the ideal upscaling direction of perovskite solar cells is subsequently proposed. It is believed that lessons learned from the historical analysis of various solar cells provide a fundamental diagnosis of relative and absolute development status of perovskite solar cells. The unique perspective proposed here can pave the way toward the upscaling of perovskite solar cells.

Introduction: Since the discovery of the photovoltaic effect by Becquerel in 1839,[1] many types of photovoltaic materials have been tested. Some of these materials are still used today and are found in solar cell efficiency charts.[2-4] However, only a few high‐performance materials have been commercialized, i.e., gallium arsenide (GaAs), silicon (Si), copper indium gallium sulfur selenide (CIGS, CIGSSe), and cadmium telluride (CdTe). The current champion single‐cell efficiencies of GaAs, Si, CIGS, CdTe, and α‐Si are 29.1% at 0.998 cm2, 26.7% at 79.0 cm2, 23.4% at 1.043 cm2, 22.1% at 0.4798 cm2, and 14.0% at 1.045 cm2, respectively, while the corresponding module efficiencies are 25.1% at 866.45 cm2, 24.4% at 13 177 cm2, 19.2% at 841 cm2, 19.0% at 23 573 cm2, and 12.3% at 14.322 cm2, respectively.[2-4] Silicon modules account for over 90% of the solar cell market share.[5] Although thin‐film solar modules compete with silicon solar cells, the efficiency of the former is lower by ≈5 percentage points (%p).[2-4]

Recently, a perovskite solar cell was reported, which used an organic metal‐halide hybrid material with an ABX3 perovskite crystal structure as the light‐absorbing layer.[6-8] This type of perovskite solar cell has attracted much attention as a next‐generation solar cell. Kojima et al. first reported a perovskite solar cell with an efficiency of 3.8% in 2009.[9] Initially, perovskite solar cells did not receive much attention because of their poor stability and efficiency. However, research has increased since Park and co‐workers reported an efficiency exceeding 9% with stability over 500 h in ambient conditions.[10, 11] In the last six years, the efficiency of perovskite solar cells increased from 14.1% to 25.2%, which is the third‐highest single‐junction efficiency reported thus far.[2-4] However, perovskite solar cells are facing commercialization issues. For their successful application to the industry, the following problems must first be addressed:[12, 13]
–Upscaling (high‐efficiency, large‐area module demonstration)
–Stability (performance degradation over times)
–Toxicity (lead (Pb) and cesium (Cs) issues).
Stability and toxicity problems were introduced relatively early in the literature.[10, 11] Immense efforts were devoted to finding the origin of and solution to the degradation of perovskite solar cells. Owing to the dedicated efforts of countless researchers, the degradation factors were identified as the humidity, light,[14, 15] heat,[16, 17] and electric fields.[12, 18] Degradation issues have been addressed with the development of stable perovskite compositions, electron‐transfer layers (ETLs) and hole‐transfer layers (HTLs), and encapsulations. Several groups have reported perovskite solar cells that passed the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) stability test, while Grätzel and co‐workers reported a cell that remained stable for one year.[19-22] Thus, stability has been significantly improved.

A large research stream on perovskite solar cells focused on addressing toxicity issues.[13] Major directions include Pb‐free or low‐Pb perovskite solar cells, where Pb is replaced by tin (Sn), bismuth (Bi), antimony (Sb), indium (In), silver (Ag), germanium (Ge), or other compatible materials. However, Pb‐free perovskite solar cells suffer from a low efficiency of ≈10% and low stability. In contrast, the low‐Pb perovskite solar cells achieved results comparable with those of Pb‐only perovskite solar cells.[23] Efficiencies of 21.2% were reported; yet, stability issues remain.[24]

Another research direction dealing with toxicity is recycling. Perovskite recycling research can be categorized into the full dissolution of perovskite materials[25, 26] and reconversion of degraded PbI2 to perovskite.[27, 28] Several groups reported that perovskite solar cells produced through recycled materials have almost identical efficiencies to pristine devices.[25-28]

Discussion on the Pb toxicity of perovskite solar cells is an ongoing issue. Some researchers claim that the amount of Pb present in perovskite is less than its natural concentration in soil, while others claim that it is critical to living organisms.[13, 23, 29-32] However, based on research results and the precedents of Pb‐containing electrodes of silicon[33] and CdTe solar cells, Pb toxicity does not appear to be a decisive obstacle to the commercialization of perovskite solar cells. Specifically, the pre‐ and post‐management strategy of the First Solar company CdTe module can also be applied to tackle the issue of Pb toxicity.[34-36]

The remaining problem is the demonstration of a large‐area high‐efficiency perovskite module. For commercial use, a minimum amount of power has to be generated, and the power generation is strongly related to the total module area and efficiency. Upscaling research has been actively conducted for several years, and the first perovskite module over 10 cm2 in area was reported in 2014.[37] Most studies focused on device areas under 100 cm2, and the largest area reported in the Solar Cell Efficiency Table is 804 cm2. Historically, the efficiency of modules over 10 cm2 in area has consistently been ≈10%p less than that of the champion small cell.[2-4, 38]

Here, we investigate the critical area dependency of the perovskite solar cell efficiency and solutions drawn from the commercialization process of other solar cells. The main materials considered here are Si, CIGS, CdTe, and perovskite. Although α‐Si absorbers have also been commercialized, they were excluded because their efficiencies were simultaneously reported for single‐ and multijunction devices, and it is difficult to classify issues related solely to the upscaling process of α‐Si solar cells.[2-4] We also highlight why different directions for the upscaling process had to be adopted for different solar cells, even if these solar cells share identical operating mechanisms.

2 Large‐Area Perovskite Solar Cells: Current Status and Obstacles
2.1 Emergence and Development of Perovskite Solar Cells
Figure 1a shows the evolution of perovskite solar cells. After the first demonstration of perovskite‐sensitized solar cells with a power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 3.8% in 2008,[9] perovskite was not considered an attractive absorber. In 2012, Park and co‐workers enhanced the device stability to 500 h in ambient conditions by replacing the liquid HTL to one based on solid‐state 2,2′,7,7′‐tetrakis[N,N‐di(4‐methoxyphenyl)amino]‐9,9′‐spirobifluorene (spiro‐MeOTAD). Thus, they improved the efficiency to 9.7% by optimizing the thickness of the titanium oxide ETL.[10, 11] This result ignited research on the application of perovskite solar cells not only as light absorbers but also as light‐emitting diodes, light detectors, memristors, etc.[39-42] In 2013, Grätzel and co‐workers developed a sequential deposition process, which successfully controlled the perovskite morphology with 15.0% efficiency.[43] In 2014, Seok and co‐workers developed a solvent engineering process, in which an antisolvent was dripped during the spin‐coating process, thereby enabling the fabrication of high‐quality uniform perovskite layers with 16.7% efficiency.[44] In 2015, they developed a compositional engineering method, which realized A‐site methylammonium (MA) + formamidinium (FA) cation mixing and X‐site iodine (I) + bromine (Br) halide mixing in ABX3 perovskite structure, with 19.0% efficiency.[45-47] The compositional engineering process has enabled the fabrication of high‐efficiency and stable perovskite solar cells, and it is now being applied universally in perovskite research. In 2019, Noh and Seo and co‐workers developed an interface passivating method to reduce interface recombination and achieved an efficiency of 23.3%.[48] Enormous research efforts were devoted to the development and optimization of the ETL, HTL, perovskite composition, thickness, process, and device structures.[12]
Recently, interfacial passivation technology between heterogeneous materials was introduced to further improve efficiency. As a result, perovskite solar cells have become the third‐most efficient single‐junction solar cell with 25.2% efficiency, which is the highest among polycrystalline thin‐film solar cells.[2-4] Although issues such as area and stability should be addressed, perovskite solar cells now compete with silicon solar cells in terms of efficiency.

2.2 Development of Large‐Area Perovskite Solar Cells
A consensus on the definition of the terms “large” and “area” is required for discussing large‐area perovskite solar cells. Table 1 lists representative reports in literature, which are used to define “large” and “area.” Green et al. presented the Solar Cell Efficiency Tables in Progress in Photovoltaics since 1993.[4, 49] The criterion for “large” has been developed over the past few decades by classifying dozens of solar cells. Another definition was used by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) in the first publication of the NREL Champion Photovoltaic Module Efficiency Chart in 2019.[3] Note that the size of a typical commercial solar module exceeds 10 000 cm2 and that no standards have been set for sizes below 200 cm2. The NREL definition can be considered to focus primarily on industry standards. In contrast, considering that the size of the modules presented in actual research is usually below 100 cm2, the definitions of Green et al. are applicable as a standard in research modules. If the definitions of the two institutions are combined, a more detailed classification is possible (see Table 1).

Table 1. Size criteria defined by the Solar Cell Efficiency Table and NREL chart,[3, 4, 49] and the combined size criteria used in this study

Solar Cell Efficiency Tables also contain criteria for the “area.”[50] The efficiency of solar cells can greatly vary depending on the definition of the measurement area. The types of measurement areas are classified into total, aperture, designated, and active areas, as shown in Figure S1 (Supporting Information). The current density of a module is measured as the highest in the active area under illumination, and it decreases to the order of the designated area, aperture area, and total area. Therefore, the area type should not be overlooked but accurately reported.

The prerequisite for the commercialization of perovskite solar cells is a high‐quality large‐area absorber. Perovskite solar cell fabrication methods can be classified into five categories based on two criteria: the number of steps and phase of materials involved in the processes and reactions (see Table 2).[51] Perovskite absorbers are directly fabricated in the single‐step process, whereas the precursor is first produced and then converted into the perovskite in the double‐step process. Moreover, processes that use both wet (solution‐based) and dry (solid‐ or vapor‐based) phases are called hybrid processes. Solution‐based spin‐coating processes are accessible and can yield high‐quality small‐area perovskite films in a short time.

Table 2. Representative fabrication processes for perovskite light absorbers. Adapted under the terms of the CC‐BY Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0).[51] Copyright 2020, Springer Nature

Although significant efficiency improvements were achieved using the single‐step spin‐coating process, the demonstrated high‐efficiency devices usually occupied around 1 cm2 because of the configurational limitations of the spin‐coating process in upscaling.[4] Consequently, scalable processes had to be redeveloped to some extent, regardless of the effectiveness of the spin‐coating process. In fact, redevelopment regarded not only the perovskite absorber layer but also the ETL and HTL.[38, 52, 53, 81]

Figure 1b summarizes upscaling research to produce perovskite solar cells with areas over 10 cm2 based on the data shown in Table S1 (Supporting Information). Large‐area perovskite results which the exact process were not disclosed are included in Figure 1a and Table S1 (Supporting Information) but not in Figure 1b. For comparison, representative data obtained with different fabrication processes for areas in the range of 0.1–1 cm2 are also shown. Perovskite upscaling research has been conducted mainly using solution‐based single‐step processes. The most commonly used process in upscaling research and small cell research is spin‐coating. The second‐most commonly used process is blade‐based coating. Dry processes have also been investigated; yet, only hybrid CVD (HCVD) has been used to cover an area over 10 cm2 based on pioneering work of Leyden and Qi and co‐workers.[75, 80, 82-84]

The perovskite minimodule was first reported in 2014 through the single‐step spin‐coating process.[37] The highest efficiency for an area exceeding 10 cm2 is 18.0% at 19.3 cm2, which was achieved by Microquanta. The largest reported area is 804 cm2 with 17.9% efficiency, which was achieved by Panasonic.[85]

2.3 Current Status of Large‐Area Perovskite Solar Cells
As shown in Figure 1a, in the last several years, the efficiency of modules over 10 cm2 in area has been consistently less than that of champion single cells by ≈10%p. Most research on large‐area modules has focused on 10–100 cm2 minimodules. Only about four cases of areas exceeding 200 cm2 were reported.[4]

Although spin‐coating has been a mainstream method in upscaling research, it shows the highest efficiency drop (10%p) between champion small cells and minimodules. The efficiency discrepancy for other processes is only ≈5%p.

The degradation in fill factor (FF) during upscaling processes is known to originate from single‐cell interconnections and has been attributed to the resistance of the transparent conducting oxide (TCO), unremoved layers even after scribing processes, and damage during scribing processes. The nonuniformity of materials can cause drops in the open‐circuit voltage (VOC). In the general configuration of thin‐film modules, several single cells are monolithic. The resulting nonuniformity, including pinholes and particulates, can cause a VOC drop. The short‐circuit current density (JSC) can decrease because of the structural limitation of conventional thin‐film modules. The area employed as electrical contacts and cell interconnections is not photoactive. This area is called the “dead area” because it cannot generate an electrical current; it causes the JSC drop and explains why the measurement configuration significantly affects the module efficiency. Nonuniformity can also cause a drop in current density because the current output of a serially connected device converges to the minimum current output among cells.[38]

To analyze the exact cause of the efficiency drop in large‐area perovskite solar cells, the solar cell parameters are normalized to the efficiency of the small champion cell for each process, as presented in Figure 2 and Table 3. Fitting was performed based on over 10 cm2 results identified till date for each process. The highest performance data in the area of 0.1–2.0 cm2 were used as a reference for fitting. In case of individual reports, there was a lower drop rate result. For example, Qiu and Qi et al. showed only 10% efficiency drop when their HCVD processed device area increased from 0.09 to 91.8 cm2 (13.3–9.3%).[80] The overall trend for each process can be found in Table 3. Although meniscus‐coating, spray‐coating, and inkjet‐printing have been reported, they were excluded from Table 3 owing to the small amount of publicly available information, which could cause statistical distortion. Most of the minimodules show an efficiency drop of ≈20–70% compared to the small champion cells. Spin‐coated minimodules show the lowest efficiencies. Efficiency drops are related to FF drops of ≈10–40%, VOC drops within 30%, and JSC drops within 70%, as shown in Figure 2a–d. Unlike FF and VOC drops, which are in the range of 10–20% on average, JSC drops show a wide distribution.

Table 3. Drop rates of solar cell parameters when the area increased by ten times for different upscaling processes

The FF drop rates of spin‐coated minimodules are similar to those of modules produced by other processes with identical module and unit cell interconnection configurations. The VOC of spin‐coated minimodules is 10% lower than that of other processes, as shown in Figure 2c. Similarly, lower JSC values are observed with a relatively large distribution.

Figure 2e–h and Table 4 present solar cell parameters with respect to the area for different numbers of components incorporated in the perovskite absorber. More than half of the minimodules are produced with three or four components. Interestingly, all the perovskite devices that show efficiency <12%, FF < 60%, VOC < 1.0 V, and JSC < 18 mA cm−2 incorporate only three or four components. As the area increases, fewer components are used, which implies that the high‐efficiency technology developed for small single cells is not yet fully applied in the upscaling process of perovskite solar cells.

Table 4. Number of perovskite components used in the perovskite absorber for different processes

In summary, the difficulties of large‐area perovskite solar cells originate from the limitation of the thin film solar module design and the fact that the conventional spin‐coating process has limitation to be directly applied as a large‐area process. In addition, developed technologies that have been universally applied to small areas to achieve high efficiency, such as composition engineering and antisolvent dripping processes,[44-48] have not been fully upscaled. The development of perovskite ink for use in large areas and the implementation of an antisolvent process in the upscaling process are being actively pursued.[52-54, 61] The comparison of the perovskite upscaling problems with commercialized solar cells and applicable solutions are continued in Sections 4 and 5.

2.4 Current Status of Perovskite/Si Tandem Solar Cell Upscaling
Upscaling is important not only for the commercialization of perovskite solar cells but also for the commercialization of perovskite‐related tandem solar cells in the future. Tandem solar cells are expected to overcome the theoretical efficiency limits of single solar cells. However, in the NREL Champion Module Efficiencies chart, there is only one high‐efficiency tandem module certification (GaAs‐based three‐junction module, 968 cm2, designate area, 31.2%).[3] Owing to cost issues, the commercialization of tandem modules is expected to be based on silicon solar cells. Recently, perovskite/silicon tandem solar cells have achieved a single tandem solar cell efficiency of 29.1%, demonstrating their potential for commercialization. Meanwhile, research on perovskite/silicon tandem solar cells is in the early stages of upscaling. Figure 3 shows the area and process dependence of the performance of perovskite/Si two‐terminal tandem solar cells. Most perovskite top cells have been produced by spin‐coating, while blade‐coated perovskite top cells have been reported. Double step hybrid processes, which incorporate evaporated precursors and conversions through solution coating/dipping, have also been reported.

All parameters tend to decrease with increasing area. The decrease in JSC and FF is more prominent, similar to the tendency of single perovskite shown in Figure 2 and Table 3. The problem of current density can have a significant effect on the reduction of the tandem solar cell efficiency.[51] There are only four reports for areas exceeding 10 cm2. The upscaling and modularization of the perovskite/Si tandem solar cells require further research. The standard wafer size of the silicon is expected to be increased, so the required area of perovskite solar cells for tandem will be larger. Since most of the tandem solar cells are manufactured with solution‐based processes, there may be difficulties when performing large‐area processes on a textured silicon surface in the future. The improvement in efficiency in large‐area perovskite single solar cells is also expected to improve efficiency of tandem solar cells.

So far, several commercialized solar cells, such as Si, CdTe, and CIGS, have faced and overcome upscaling problems that perovskite solar cells have confronted in the present. A historical analysis of the upscaling and commercialization of such solar cells can help in solving the upscaling problem of perovskite solar cells.

3 Si, CIGS, and CdTe Solar Cells: Development and Upscaling History
3.1 Similarities in Operating Mechanisms and Origin of Different Upscaling Strategies
Acquiring reliable data is important to conduct a historical analysis. There are three major reliable data sources. First, journal papers, conference proceedings, and press‐release data are great sources that can provide a holistic understanding. Immense time and effort are required to collect and arrange the available data on all the different solar cells. Also, in many cases, the necessary information is not indicated. Second, the NREL Best Research‐Cell Efficiency Chart and Champion Module Efficiency Chart are two of the most reliable sources of solar cell history.[2, 3] However, the NREL charts record only the highest efficiency, regardless of area, without providing detailed parameters. The third source are the Solar Cell Efficiency Tables in Progress in Photovoltaics.[4] In these tables, Green et al. have collected and tabled detailed data on the best‐efficiency solar cells and modules with references and strict rules for data collection. Certified efficiency, which is measured at recognized test centers, is used to produce reliable data. Inclusion in the tables has certain device‐size criteria, which are >0.05 cm2 for a concentrator cell, >1 cm2 for a 1 sun single cell, >200 cm2 for a submodule, and >800 cm2 for a module. The measurement area is also clearly documented as the total area, aperture area, or designated area.[50] The active‐area efficiencies have not been recorded. Data on solar cells that satisfy these conditions have been recorded in detail since 1993. In addition, data that deviate slightly from the above‐mentioned conditions have been also included in the table after evaluations, e.g., the efficiency of a solar cell that is slightly lower than the highest reported efficiency, a new structure with a lower efficiency, or a high efficiency measured for an area under 1 cm2. Because of these advantages, we adopted the data from the Solar Cell Efficiency Table versions 1 to 56 for the historical analysis of solar cells.[4, 49, 50, 95, 120-170]

Figure 4a,b shows the JSC/cell × VOC/cell and FF with respect to the efficiency of solar cells for champion single junctions, submodules, modules, and notable exceptions in the Solar Cell Efficiency Tables. These graphs show the reported solar cells that share the same operating mechanisms based on the p–n junction diode and bandgap. GaAs, which is the highest‐efficiency single‐junction solar cell, is located in the top‐right region. Silicon, perovskite, CdTe, and CIGS follow GaAs in a nearly straight line. Although deviations exist in the graph for FF, the trend is the same. Because all solar cells have the same device physics, technical strategies and solutions that have been tested and proved in high‐efficiency devices are universally applicable. The reason why different types of solar cells follow different development paths, even though they operate under the same physics, is related to the distinct and unique characteristics of different light absorbers. Silicon has a diffusion length of 100–300 µm and a low absorption coefficient of ≈103 cm−1.[171-174] This means that silicon needs a thickness of 100–300 µm for full light absorption and no problems occur with carrier transport. Because the absorber is thick, silicon wafers can be freestanding. Additionally, by virtue of the high conductivity of junction counterparts, which have usually been constructed with homogeneous materials, silicon has less limitations in terms of electrode configurations. Furthermore, silicon solar cell research has benefited from the semiconductor industry. The massive facilities and processes developed during the evolution of the semiconductor industry could be applied to silicon solar cell research. Moreover, the silicon solar cell community has had access to high‐quality single‐crystalline silicon wafers. Compared to the massive efforts in the upscaling processes of other solar cells, which started from the acquisition of high‐quality, uniform, and large‐area light absorbers, the availability of large‐area high‐quality commercial silicon wafers has been a huge advantage of upscaling research. Owing to the development of a 6 in. uniform characteristic wafer‐based process, a 6 in. silicon solar cell could be used as a unit solar cell. To achieve a size of 6 in. or more, the wafer size was not increased, but the area could be relatively easily increased by connecting 6 in. unit cells through a ribbon‐tabbing process, as shown in Figure 4d,e. The series connection of the unit cells was also useful to achieve the required voltage. Importantly, when unit solar cells were connected to realize a large area, solar cells with similar performance were sorted and connection were made between them. This greatly reduces the nonuniformity.

In summary, the thick wafers, high conductivity of junction counterparts, simultaneous growth of the semiconductor industry, accessible high‐quality large‐area single‐crystal absorbers, and wafer‐based interconnection processes have been largely beneficial to the upscaling of silicon solar cells.

In contrast, thin‐film solar cells have a high light absorption coefficient of ≈105 cm−1, which is 100 times that of silicon, and a short diffusion length of ≈300–3000 nm. Conventional thin‐film solar cells have an absorber thickness of 300–4000 nm.[173, 174] They adopt substrates or superstrates to avoid curling or breaking and to stand in plane. The adoption of glass substrates has caused further problems, such as impurities infiltrations from glass substrates and process temperature restrictions. Owing to the low conductivity of junction counterparts, which are usually constructed with heterogeneous materials, they need full‐area electrode contacts for carrier collection without blocking light. The necessity for substrates or superstrates and the full‐contact TCO natively constrain the device structure and configuration of thin‐film solar cells. Owing to these limitations, to achieve the large area and required voltage, different approaches have been adopted in thin‐film solar cell upscaling research. The large‐area thin‐film layers were firstly produced and isolated to several unit cells by laser scribing or physical scribing, and then, serially connected again, as shown in Figure 4f,g. On average, three‐times scribing processes were required, leading to other problems, such as dead area, scribing damage, and unremoved layers.

GaAs, which is located in the upper‐right region of Figure 4a,b, has a high absorption coefficient and moderate diffusion length. Hence, it has the advantages of both wafer‐based and thin‐film‐based materials, which explains why GaAs performs the best.[173, 174] However, GaAs is significantly more expensive to manufacture than other solar cells.

In summary, the differences in the basic properties of absorber materials of different solar cells have resulted in diverging development histories and upscaling strategies

3.2 Development History and Key Technologies for Upscaling
3.2.1 Silicon Solar Cells
Figure 5 shows the evolution of silicon solar cells. With the huge advantages in terms of absorber materials, research on silicon solar cells could focus on interfaces, contacts, light absorption, and optimum device structures. With each development target, various types of silicon cells have been developed. Examples include the back surface field (BSF), passivated emitter rear cell (PERC), passivated emitter rear locally diffused (PERL), passivated emitter rear totally diffused (PERT),[175, 176] heterojunction with intrinsic thin layer (HIT),[177] interdigitated back contact (IBC), tunnel‐oxide passivated contact (TOPCon),[178-181] heterojunction back contact (HBC),[182] polysilicon on oxide (POLO),[183] and bifacial cell.[184]

In the first era of silicon solar cell development, only bulk grown‐in silicon junctions and contacts were used. Junction produced by ion bombardment was also applied. These types of devices show an efficiency of ≈1%. Then, diffusion processes were adopted to enhance junction quality, greatly improving efficiency to 6%. The development of antireflection coatings, metal contacts, back‐surface fields for carrier selectivity, and surface texturing further improved the efficiency to 17%.

Structural evolutions followed, but front metal contacts limited light absorption. To eliminate shadowing problems, IBC cells with 22% efficiency were proposed in 1988. However, it complicated fabrication processes and fine control of the rear‐side metal and doping were required. Thus, IBC cells initially did not gain much traction in solar cell research.

Surface and interface passivation were also applied to reduce recombination and thereby produce higher voltages. Initially, PERL, PERC, and PERT cell structures were applied for rear‐side passivation. With the optimization of passivation and light absorption, these structures yielded the highest efficiency among silicon solar cells until 2000. Several passivation materials and structures for finer passivation and light absorption have been investigated. Specifically, HIT was developed in 1994 to reduce interface recombination by using amorphous silicon as the passivation layer and junction. HIT cells do not have direct contact between the metal electrode and silicon, enabling full‐area passivation. This provided advantages in terms of VOC. The continual voltage increments from 2000 to 2015 shown in Figure 5e can be attributed to the emergence of HIT. However, because of the incorporation of less conductive amorphous silicon, lateral carrier transports were limited, and TCO had to be applied. Furthermore, amorphous silicon shows strong parasitic absorption; therefore, HIT shows a lower JSC than PERC and PERL structures, as shown in Figure 5g. TOPCon and POLO structures were introduced to address such problems, using silicon oxide as the passivation layer. Since 2015, a high‐quality passivation layer incorporated with an optimized back‐contact structure, called HBC, led to an efficiency improvement, resulting in a record silicon solar cell efficiency of 26.7% in 2017.[3, 4, 184, 185]

As presented in Figure 5, the efficiency of silicon solar cells does not decrease significantly as the area increases. The difference in the highest efficiency between a module and single cell is only ≈2%p. VOC is maintained regardless of the increase in area. The difference in JSC is ≈2–3 mA cm−2, while the difference in FF is ≈2.5%p. These results can be attributed to the advantages explained in Section 3.1 such as wafer‐based processes, commercially available high‐quality wafers, and silicon‐based processes and equipment. Importantly, instead of increasing the wafer size to realize a larger area, the ribbon tabbing or similar wafer‐to‐wafer connection process could be applied. The 6 in. wafer‐based process and sorting method reduces the burden of module uniformity by unit 6 in. area wafer rather than total area.[186-188] Hence, it was possible to greatly reduce the nonuniformity in the area increase, which suppressed the efficiency reduction by ≈2%p when going from a single cell of 15.8 cm × 15.8 cm to a 10 000 cm2 module with a 100‐fold increase in area. The 2–3 mA cm−2 JSC decrease can be attributed to the gap between cells generated in cell‐to‐cell connections and the cell–frame distance for encapsulation and safety. The decrease of 2.5%p in FF can be explained by the increase in the series resistance and charge transport distance following the area increase. To address these problems, structural solutions, such as deployment of a shingled module, were also developed and used.[189]

On the other hand, the components of thin‐film solar cells have been made as large as the target size. Furthermore, the performance uniformity of the single cells had to be guaranteed within the total area because sorting was not possible. Owing to these limitations, the core technology for the upscaling and modularization of thin‐film solar cells is considered a process development for realizing a uniform thin film in a targeted large area.[190-193]

3.2.2 CdTe Solar Cells
Figure 6 shows the evolution of CdTe, namely, the development history of high‐quality absorbers and low‐resistance contacts. Almost every efficiency enhancement of CdTe before 2000 had been achieved with FF improvement. Fabrication processes were developed for the absorber and heterojunction partners during the first development stage, while the fabrication of low‐resistance contacts was the next aim. Initially, the difference in efficiency between large‐area modules and a single cell was ≈6%p. The main discrepancy between the module and single‐cell performance was observed in terms of FF. It is presumed that the low‐resistance contact was difficult to realize in the large‐area process.[194-197]

CdTe development advanced mainly through the close‐spaced sublimation (CSS) process, which is similar to evaporation at a close distance between target materials and substrates. The key in upscaling and modularization was the implementation of the CSS process to large areas, maintaining uniformity and high quality. Throughout the area, both the CdTe absorber and CdS window layer had to be deposited uniformly. The blank region from 2000 to 2010 in Figure 6 reflects the process development period. First Solar developed a type of large‐area CSS technology, the so‐called vapor transport deposition (VTD) techniques. Because the VTD method is similar to the evaporation method and the deposition rate is fast, it was important to control process variables such as the source feeding speed, heater temperature, and particle size. First Solar also developed a dielectric material plug‐in process, which can effectively passivate pinholes produced during the fast VTD process. With the entry of First Solar into CdTe development, the small‐area cell and module efficiencies began to increase again after 2010.[197-199]

3.2.3 CIGS Solar Cells
Figure 7 shows the development history of CIGS solar cells. The three slopes observed correspond to the periods 1990–2000, 2000–2010, and 2010 to present. The first stage of development involved the investigation of heterojunction partners and process development. After 1990, absorber bandgap optimization was investigated through Ga doping. During this period, improvements to the JSC, VOC, FF, and PCE by ≈5 mA cm−2, 150 mV, 15%p, and 5%p, respectively, were achieved. After 2000, the bandgap was fine‐tuned, and the layers were optimized, resulting in improvements to the VOC, FF, and PCE by 100 mV, 5%p, and 2%p, respectively. After 2010, alkali treatment resulted in significant improvements to the VOC, JSC, and PCE by 50 mV, 5 mA cm−2, and 4%p, respectively.[190, 194-196, 200]

An efficiency discrepancy has been maintained between CIGS modules and single cells. The main reason for this discrepancy is the difference in FF, similar to the case of CdTe. A difference in FF of ≈2–5%p can be attributed to TCO, which must be used because of the module‐structure limitation. In contrast, the VOC and JSC of modules have converged to the best results for single cells. For the upscaling of CIGS solar cells, controlling the desired composition throughout the area is important. CIGS solar cells had complicated compositions and diverse phases and required a graded bandgap to maximize efficiency. Consequently, the fine‐tuning of the process conditions in a large scale was a key issue for producing large‐area CIGS solar cells and modules. Furthermore, the control of toxic gases in the process was required. Therefore, resilient facilities with technologies for the fine‐tuning of process conditions were required for the upscaling of CIGS solar cells. Solar Frontier developed their own facilities to meet these requirements and is now leading the CIGS market.[191-193]

3.2.4 Perovskite Solar Cells
Figure 8 shows the development history of perovskite solar cells based on data acquired from the Solar Cell Efficiency Tables alone.[4, 50, 95, 160-170] In the case of perovskite solar cells, the difference in efficiency between modules and single cells is much higher than those of the aforementioned solar cells. A parameter that shows critical degradation with increasing area is the JSC (for more information, see Figure 2, Tables 3 and 4, and Section 4).

3.3 Brief Summary of Solar Cells Development Pathways
Except for structural and strategic differences in large‐area approaches research on solar cells have been conducted with a focus on improving efficiency. The first common research topic is the quality of the light‐absorber layer. Processes were developed to realize high uniformity, high crystallinity, and optimum composition and to control grain sizes. The second topic is the junction quality. Heterojunction partners, such as the ETL, HTL, and window and buffer layers, were developed. Such research aimed to achieve high‐quality p–n junctions to effectively separate electrons and holes and decent contacts between layers with negligible electrical and optical losses. The third topic is the interface between layers to reduce recombination and losses. The fourth topic regards the structure and configuration optimization. In thin‐film solar cells, structural development is necessary, as the HBC structure was developed to achieve significant improvements in silicon solar cells.

4 Diagnosis the Efficiency Gaps between Small‐Area and Large‐Area Devices
4.1 Classification of Solar Cells Based on Crystallinity, Structure, and Junction Types: Directions for Perovskite Upscaling
Figure 9 and Table 5 show the parameters of the investigated solar cells with respect to the area. The PCE, FF, and JV/cell graphs can be divided into three regions according to the data, while some sections invade each other; however, the distinction between the three areas seems to be relatively clear. The top region accommodates wafer‐based single‐crystal homojunction materials. These materials show high performance and a modest decrease in efficiency with the increase in area. The middle region accommodates solar cells made of thin‐film‐based polycrystalline heterojunction materials. The bottom region accommodates organic thin‐film‐based nanocrystalline heterojunction materials. From Figure 9 and Table 5, it can be deduced that the single crystal, wafer‐based, and homojunction are the most advantageous materials for the upscaling process to date. Single‐crystal materials have uniform nature itself. Perovskite solar cells with polycrystalline, thin film, and heterojunction properties may have to essentially pursue single crystal, wafer‐based, and homojunction properties in order to compete with large‐area silicon solar cells in the future.

In the present however, compared to CIGS and CdTe thin films that share similar fundamental characteristics, the efficiency gap between small‐ and large‐area solar cells is still significant for perovskite solar cells. Minimizing this efficiency gap has to be conducted first, and techniques used for other thin‐film solar cells can be adapted for this purpose. In the following, we discuss the causes of this efficiency gap and technologies that are implemented in the upscaling of commercialized thin‐film solar cells.

4.2 Origins of Efficiency Decrease with Increasing Area in Perovskite Solar Cells
4.2.1 Difficultly of Implementation of Developed Technologies in Large Areas
In case of CIGS or CdTe solar cells, the main composition of the light absorption layer is defined and the processes developed for small‐area could be directly adapted to large‐area fabrication. However, the light‐absorbing perovskite layer can be formed with various combinations of 3 to 8 or more elements to achieve similar bandgaps.[46-48, 201-204] Depending on the combination of elements, there are detail differences in the processes used for controlling the crystallization.[44, 46, 47, 55, 205]

As shown in Figure 2, mixed perovskites are suitable for achieving high efficiency and stability. Consequently, deposition methods, solvents, and crystal growth reaction controls with multiple components should be implemented in a large area.

4.2.2 Absence of Doping Type
The efficiency of perovskite solar cells also decreases with increasing area because of the absence of a doping type. It was reported that the doping type of organic–inorganic perovskite can be controlled through a composition control.[206-208] However, most perovskite materials used in solar cells are considered to be intrinsic and have bipolar characteristics, transporting both electrons and holes. Therefore, various types and materials of ETLs and HTLs had to be adopted and combined to achieve a high efficiency. This implies that the equipment and process must be optimized for all material combinations when manufacturing on a large scale. For given electron and hole transporting materials, properties such as the doping, uniformity, work function, and passivation quality must be uniform over an entire area.

CIGS and CdTe show p‐type characteristics, and acknowledged n‐type materials are applied to produce p–n junction with CIGS or CdTe. For example, in the case of CIGS solar cells, Mo or Mo‐based compounds are mostly constructed as hole transport layers, while the ETL is mostly made of Cd, Zn, and In‐based sulfide, oxide, or hydroxide compounds.[190, 209-211] As the bulk doping type is designated, a high efficiency can be realized on a large scale by optimizing the n‐type material forming the junction, and a BSF can be applied for further efficiency improvement. However, in the case of perovskite solar cells, various types of ETLs and HTLs are used, including organic, inorganic, or hybrid materials.

4.2.3 Absence of Chemical Bonding in Heterogeneous Interface Interconnections
Finally, the efficiency of perovskite solar cells can be decreased with increasing area because of the imperfect interfacial interconnections between heterogeneous materials in large areas. At the interface near the junction of a CIGS solar cells, metal‐ion intermixing occurs between the CIGS and precursor during the chemical bath deposition (CBD) process, and the n‐type layer can be uniformly grown via adsorption along the surface morphology of CIGS.[200, 212, 213] In addition, in a CdTe solar cell, a mixed crystal layer composed of an n‐type material and CdTe is formed at an interface.[214-216] Near the rear electrode of both CIGS and CdTe solar cells, a compound is formed through the mixing of the elements of the electrode material and light‐absorbing material during the heat treatment process. All these processes improve the bonding and electrical properties of the interface.[217-222] However, the films of perovskite solar cells do not have chemical connections between layers. The connection between the layers depends only on the physical junction and can cause imperfectly covered underlying layer. This problem is especially severe in solution processes. When physical voids are formed, shunt resistance may decrease, and even if the layer is well deposited, the recombination problem at the interface remains. When the charge collection at the interface is not sufficient, hysteresis, which has been rarely reported for other solar cells, occurs in perovskite solar cells.[223, 224] In addition, because the applicable annealing temperature of perovskite is relatively low, the formation of compounds between materials is challenging. Although techniques for additional interfacial passivation have been proposed, further studies are needed for large‐area applications.

5 Strategies Can Be Adopted from Commercialized Solar Cells
5.1 Strategies for Large‐Scale Uniform Thin‐Film Coating
Fabricating a uniform film on a large area has a critical impact on the efficiency of large‐area solar cells. This is because, conceptually, the finite elements of diodes are connected in parallel in the solar cell, and the characteristics of the cell are dominated by areas with poor characteristics. Therefore, a technique for forming a uniform large‐area thin film is essential. The deposition processes of CIGS and CdTe thin‐film solar cells introduced in Sections 3.2.2 and 3.2.3 confirm that large‐area and high‐efficiency solar cells were realized based on a uniform high‐quality thin‐film formation technology. In particular, equipment for depositing the light‐absorbing layer with high uniformity and superior quality should be developed together with the process technology. Regarding perovskite solar cells, research is being widely conducted to realize a high‐quality uniform film on a large scale (see Sections 2.2 and 2.3). Although many studies are focusing on solution process, vacuum process, such as evaporation, sputtering, CVD, CSS, and VTD, can be attractive candidates for large‐area deposition because the feasibility of these processes has already been confirmed for CIGS and CdTe solar cells. Furthermore, these techniques have already been well established for other electronic devices, such as displays, TFTs, and other semiconductors. In terms of processes, as summarized in Section 3.2.3, the deposition method of sputtered CIGS solar cells is similar to a two‐step process in which metal precursors are first formed and then crystallized by adding chalcogen elements. Evaporated CIGS or CdTe solar cells are fabricated using a one‐step process in which the source material has the same composition as the deposited material. Although a higher efficiency than that of the solution process has not yet been demonstrated for non‐solution‐based processes, attempts to apply such processes on perovskite solar cells were made.[69, 74, 80, 83, 225-227]

As many researchers already recognize, it is difficult to directly apply the deposition technology used in other thin‐film solar cells to perovskite solar cells. First, perovskite materials are known to have a fast crystallization rate at relatively low temperatures. In contrast, CIGS or CdTe has a high crystallization temperature and a low crystallization rate. This implies, paradoxically, that it is more difficult to control the crystallization of the perovskite thin film. In solution processes, all components are dissociated into ions, and crystal growth can be mitigated with an appropriate additive; consequently, the crystal growth rate and phase segregation can be controlled. Contrarily, in non‐solution process, the control of growth rate and phase segregation is difficult because the materials constituting the perovskite coexist and the phase equilibrium governs crystal growth. This can be partially solved by deploying a hybrid process as shown in Table 2.

Second, unlike CIGS and CdTe solar cells, high‐efficiency perovskite solar cells contain organics based on methylamine (MA) and formamidinium (FA). Because of the existence of organic matter, controlling the thermal vacuum deposition owing to the low energy for evaporation is difficult, and the sputtering process is challenging because of the low dissociation energy. Therefore, the deposition method used in other thin‐film solar cells cannot be directly applied. Cs‐based inorganic perovskite solar cells have been intensively investigated by many research groups in the past several years to replace the organic components. As a consequence, the device stability and performance are comparable with conventional organic–inorganic hybrid perovskite solar cells.[228-235] If the inorganic perovskite is fabricated with a large area, the techniques used in other thin‐film solar cells can be more easily applied. Therefore, it is essential to continually study inorganic perovskite solar cells to solve not only the stability issues but also the problem of large‐area fabrication. From the same perspective, the application of inorganic materials may be favorable in depositing large‐area ETLs and HTLs in perovskite solar cells.

It is difficult to conclude which process is more advantageous. Nevertheless, CIGS and CdTe thin films have been successfully realized with large areas. It is also clear that the technology used in those solar cells can deposit uniform and conformal thin film with a large area. Therefore, continuous research on both processes is required, especially for developing a non‐solution‐based deposition technique to realize large‐area perovskite solar cells.

5.2 Advanced Scalable Post‐Treatment for Enhancing Passivation Property
As the efficiency of perovskite solar cells increases, research on improving the quality of the light‐absorbing layer and controlling the interface between the ETL and HTL is being widely conducted.[48, 201, 203, 236] Especially in recent high‐efficiency perovskite solar cells, the efficiency was improved by introducing an additional passivation layer to the interface. Various studies have achieved to replicate the bulk properties in the large area, but the efficiency remains limited by surface recombination due to the presence of a sufficient diffusion length in the bulk. To realize this technology, surface passivation materials and processes applicable to large areas must be developed. For example, in the case of CIGS solar cells, a post‐treatment process called postdeposition treatment (PDT) is performed to increase the surface passivation effect by doping the surface with heavy alkali elements.[190, 200, 210, 211] Moreover, there have been reports of a process that reduces the surface leakage current using a wet chemical process by controlling the concentration of alkali ions and copper ions near the surface and removing defective secondary phases.[237-240] Similar to the forming gas annealing of silicon solar cells by introducing sulfur post‐treatment after CIGS formation, the surface passivation quality is increased by suppressing defects on the surface and increasing the bandgap near the surface.[190, 209, 241]

In the case of CdTe solar cells, a post‐treatment process is performed to improve the bulk and surface passivation characteristics by performing CdCl2 post‐treatment to promote crystallization.[242-245] Furthermore, by introducing a transition metal and postheat treatment, an ohmic contact and BSF could be obtained simultaneously.[219, 221, 222] These processes are applicable to large‐area solar cell fabrication. Similar post‐treatment processes have also been attempted in perovskite solar cells. Post‐treatment processes using methyl ammonium chloride and methylamine gas exposure have been investigated. The method of adding chloride directly to the perovskite solutions has been also studied.[246-248] However, the improvement of the efficiency of large‐area perovskite solar cells requires several generally applicable post‐treatment processes and materials for surface passivation.

6 Required Considerations for Perovskite Modulation
6.1 General Reasons for Cell to Module Losses (CTM Loss) in Thin Film Solar Modules
The ultimate goal of developing a large‐area coating technology is to produce high‐efficiency modules. In this section, we briefly discuss the considerations of modularizing a solar cell and then conceptually explore possible technologies. Excluding uniformity problems, such as shunting through the bulk, current and voltage mismatch due to imperfections of the compositional distribution, an efficiency discrepancy between a cell and module, CTM loss still exists. The first consideration is the FF loss due to the increase in the series resistance resulting from the use of a TCO electrode. As shown in Figure 4f, a thin‐film solar cell module has a monolithic structure in which unit solar cells are connected in series within a substrate. Because the sun side of the module should be transparent and conductive, it is constructed with TCO. However, transmittance and conductivity are inversely related to each other, and the lateral resistance of TCO dominates the total resistance of the module.

The second consideration is a current loss caused by the dead area. To form a series‐connection structure of individual solar cells inside the module, each component is short‐circuited through a laser or physical scribing process. The dead area cannot contribute to the current of the module because it is not connected parallelly with the unit solar cell. Therefore, the total active area in the module is decreased by the dead area. By calculating the resistance loss due to the transparent electrode and the current loss due to the dead area, it is possible to roughly derive the optimum width of unit cells, as shown in Figure 10.

6.2 Possible Degradation of Perovskite Solar Cells due to the Module Configurations
If the solar cell is fabricated and modularized with a large area, stability issues must inevitably be considered. Efforts to improve stability against environmental factors, such as temperature, humidity, light, and electric field, are essential for practical application of the solar cell.[15, 17, 18] If all module components, including the solar cells, are well constructed and a small‐area solar cell is stabilized, a large‐area solar cell is expected to be durable. However, it is necessary to recognize the degradation that may occur as the size increases. The first possible degradation phenomenon is the reduction of the output power due to a current mismatch resulting from partial shading, because of which the solar cell may deteriorate when continuously kept in a shadow. Li et al. also briefly addressed on the possibility of module failure by partial shading.[52] When a partial shade occurs over a certain area of a unit cell, the total current of the entire module is limited. Simultaneously, a reverse bias is applied to the shaded unit solar cell, which is well known as the partial shading effect.[251, 252] In the CIGS solar cell, it was reported that the presence of a shade on a certain area not only decreases the generated power but also destroys the material itself.[251] Perovskite solar cells have a large number of unbonded ions due to the low formation energy, which significantly affects the properties of the solar cells.[18, 253, 254] Therefore, when a reverse bias is artificially induced in a large‐area perovskite solar cell under a shadow, there is a high probability of material deterioration and electrical breakdown. Further research is needed to address this problem.

The second possible degradation phenomenon is potential‐induced degradation (PID). When making a large‐area thin‐film solar cell, the unit solar cells are serially connected in a module form. The total generated voltage is determined by the number of solar cells connected in series. Furthermore, the operating photovoltaic module is grounded for safety. During operation, the output power of the module continuously decreases owing to a potential difference between the outer part of the grounded module and the insulated photovoltaic cell. In the case of silicon solar cells, such phenomena and their causes have been reported in detail.[255-257] Contrarily, in the case of thin‐film solar cells, research on PID has been rare, and it remains uncertain what problems may occur under a high potential in perovskite solar cells. In particular, since the perovskite solar cell has a larger VOC at a similar efficiency compared to that of other thin‐film solar cells, more attention is required to PID by accumulated voltage.

In summary, efforts to improve stability against temperature and humidity are fundamental and essential. In addition, the electrical degradation phenomena are critical because they may cause permanent material damage. As the size of the solar cell increases, these phenomena can occur naturally during operation. Therefore, they need to be considered and studied further.

6.3 Requirement for Advanced Technology: Overcoming Structural Limitations Caused by Short Diffusion Lengths
Thin‐film solar cells, including perovskite solar cells, need a substrate for fabrication. The light‐absorbing layer grows mostly in the polycrystalline form because epitaxial single‐crystal growth is difficult when using heterogeneous substrates. Moreover, the reaction is controlled by nucleation in the precursor layer and grain growth through post‐heat treatment. On the other hand, silicon solar cells, which account for over 90% of the market, can be manufactured from wafers that can be grown as a single crystal. In Section 3.1, the differences between various types of solar cells were discussed. These structural differences also lead to differences in the technical approach to large‐scale fabrication. Unlike the top‐down fabrication process based on Si wafers, which can be manufactured with single crystals, thin‐film solar cells are manufactured using the bottom‐up method, which is supported by a substrate.

In the case of a wafer‐based silicon solar cell, various structures can be fabricated, e.g., a sandwich structure in which electrodes are located on the front and rear sides of a light‐absorbing layer, a local contact structure, and a back contact structure in which both cathodes and anodes are located at the rear. These structures can be implemented not only because silicon solar cells are fabricated from wafers but also because the diffusion length is sufficient to enable the horizontal movement of the carrier. However, in the case of thin‐film solar cells, a carrier‐selective layer is required to form an electric field in all areas inside the light‐absorbing layer owing to the short diffusion length of the bulk material. Therefore, the movement and collection of photogenerated carriers are limited to the vertical direction within the bulk, and the electrodes must be located at the front and rear sides. Thus, thin‐film solar cells are limited to the sandwich structure. In the case of CIGS solar cells, a few studies implementing the concept of local contact have been reported, although not for a large area.[182, 258] On the other hand, considering the processable range, the diffusion length remains insufficient to form a back contact structure, which is already adapted in silicon solar cells.[259] If a thin film with a higher diffusion length is realized, the present structural limitations may be overcome.

The following proposals can be considered for the upscaling of perovskite solar cells, as shown in Figure 11. First, the solar cell can be fabricated in the form of a wafer.[260, 261] Considering that a diffusion length over 100 µm in single‐crystal perovskite has already been reported, this may be feasible.[262] Implementing a perovskite solar cell in a wafer form enables the utilization of most benefits of silicon solar cells and module technologies. In particular, the limitations imposed by thin‐film modularization technologies can be overcome, and ultimately, higher module efficiencies can be achieved. Next, it may be possible to place all electrodes in the form of an integrated circuit beneath the absorbing layer, especially when manufacturing a large‐area solar cell module. If a large‐area thin‐film solar cell is implemented in the form of a circuit, additional current may be gained and resistance losses may be reduced, increasing the total generated power. Although the possibility of these conceptual technologies is unconfirmed, it is clear that further efforts to increase the diffusion length over a large area of the thin film are necessary. The key parameters for implementing the large‐scale perovskite solar cells are summarized in Figure 11.

7 Conclusion: The technology of small‐area perovskite solar cells has already reached maturity. However, the technology deployed in small areas exhibits a technical heterogeneity with upscaling processes, at least to date. In this paper, we investigated solutions for the perovskite upscaling based on the development and commercialization history of Si, CdTe, CIGS, GaAs, organic, and DSSC. The similarities of operating mechanisms between solar cells, the origin of different development pathways, and the existing commercialized processes for various solar cells were analyzed. To successfully realize high‐efficiency large‐area perovskite solar cells, we still require innovative process development, successful transformation of small‐area technologies, and elimination of current limitations imposed by polycrystalline heterojunction thin‐film solar cells.

Herein, the commercialization of various solar cells and the upscaling of perovskite solar cells are comparatively analyzed. Lessons learned from the historical analysis of various solar cells provide a fundamental diagnosis of relative and absolute development status of perovskite solar cells. Commercialization pathway of various solar cells provides feasible technologies that can be applied to the perovskite upscaling process in the present and in the future.
