Abstract: Quasi‐1D metal halide perovskite nanorods (NRs) are emerging as a type of materials with remarkable optical and electronic properties. Research into this field is rapidly expanding and growing in the past several years, with significant advances in both mechanistic studies of their growth and widespread possible applications. Here, the recent advances in 1D metal halide perovskite nanocrystals (NCs) are reviewed, with a particular emphasis on NRs. At first, the crystal structures of perovskites are elaborated, which is followed by a review of the major synthetic approaches toward perovskite NRs, such as wet‐chemical synthesis, substrate‐assisted growth, and anion exchange reactions, and discussion of the growth mechanisms associated with each synthetic method. Then, thermal and aqueous stability and the linear polarized luminescence of perovskite NRs are considered, followed by highlighting their applications in solar cells, light‐emitting diodes, photodetectors/phototransistors, and lasers. Finally, challenges and future opportunities in this rapidly developing research area are summarized.

Introduction: Metal halide perovskite nanocrystals (NCs) with a general formula ABX3 (see Section 2 for detailed discussion of their constituents and crystal phases) possess many of useful characteristics such as large absorption coefficients, tunable emission wavelengths, long diffusion lengths, and high optical gains,[1] which is of relevance for their applications to the development of solar cells, light‐emitting diodes (LEDs), photodetectors, lasers, and biological probes.[2] Unlike conventional II–VI, III–V, and IV–VI semiconductor NCs, perovskite NCs have a soft and ionic lattice.[3] Such ionic nature makes it possible to conduct anion exchange reactions from one kind of perovskite NCs, for example CsPbBr3, to another and thus achieve particles with different compositions such as CsPbCl3, CsPbI3, and their mixed‐anion alloys, which is changing to accomplish for conventional semiconductor NCs. This enables bandgap tuning over the whole visible and even near‐infrared spectral ranges while maintaining the size and morphology of the resulting NCs.[4] However, their ionic nature also makes the growth rates of perovskites extremely fast, with a completion of the NC growth ranging from less than a second to a couple of seconds.[5] The fast growth rate makes it difficult to control the final shape of perovskite NCs,[6] which will be elaborated upon in detail in this article further below.

Useful properties of 1D semiconductor nanorods (NRs) including linearly polarized light emission, reduced lasing threshold, and improved charge transport[6] make them stand out from semiconductor NCs of other morphologies in a variety of applications such as liquid crystal displays (LCDs), lasers, solar cells and photocatalysis.[7] For example, aligned CdSe/CdS NRs incorporated in thin polymer films have been proposed as optical enhancement films to improve the brightness and broaden the color gamut of LCDs.[7] In addition, CdSe/CdS, alloyed CdSexS1−x and CsPbBr3 NRs have demonstrated a relatively low amplified spontaneous emission (ASE) threshold and a high net optical gain at a medium or low pump intensity, making them capable of producing lasing with low pumping thresholds.[7, 8] Furthermore, the 1D character of semiconductor NRs benefits efficient charge separation and provides specific spatial locations for selective deposition of other materials to realize 1D heterostructures, with prominent potentials in optoelectronics and photocatalysis.[9]

Although there are a few documented attempts for the controlled chemical growth of perovskite NRs,[6, 7, 10] research into this area is still in its infancy. A high‐degree of control during the synthesis of perovskite NRs in terms of size, aspect ratio, and performance, is not yet been fully realized. It is desirable to develop facile, robust, and scalable synthetic strategies for the preparation of high‐quality perovskite NRs, to enrich the existing knowledge of their growth mechanisms, and to improve their optical and electronic properties that underpin their future applications.

Here, we summarize the research progress in perovskite NRs which have been achieved in the recent few years, and provides perspectives on this exciting and fast‐growing research field. Following the Introduction, Section 2 introduces crystal phases of perovskites, offering insights on how these materials can be shaped into anisotropic 1D form from a perspective of crystallography. Section 3 further elaborates on the syntheses of perovskite NRs, which includes wet‐chemical approaches (organic ligand‐mediated growth, chemical cutting from nanowires (NWs), phase transition control, and oriented attachment), substrate‐assisted approach (polymer matrix‐assisted growth, dissolution–recrystallization strategy, and vapor‐phase deposition), and anion exchange. Section 4 considers the strategies to improve the thermal and aqueous stability, and the linear polarized luminescence of perovskite NRs, and Section 5 provides a few examples of their emerging applications in solar cells, LEDs, photodetectors/phototransistors, and lasers. Challenges and perspectives for the future development of perovskite NRs are summarized at the end.

Main: 2 Crystal Structures of Metal Halide Perovskite Nanorods
Metal halide perovskites with the chemical formula of ABX3 consist of a monovalent cation A (cesium, methylammonium (MA), formamidinium (FA), or a mixture of those), a divalent cation B (lead, tin, germanium, or a mixture of those) and a halide anion X (chlorine, bromine, iodine, or a mixture of those) (Figure 1a,b).[11] In this section, we will use CsPbBr3 perovskite materials as an illustrative example to introduce polymorphs of lead halide perovskite NRs and to provide in‐depth insights into their anisotropic growth.

image
Figure 1
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a,b) Crystal structures of orthorhombic (a) and cubic (b) metal halide perovskites. Note that orthorhombic perovskite has a distorted structure with tilted octahedra. c) XRD patterns of lead halide perovskites of cubic (PDF #54‐0752), orthorhombic (PDF #072‐7929), and monoclinic (PDF #18‐0364) phases.
The majority of publications on perovskite NRs provide interpretation of their crystal structure as an orthorhombic phase (Figure 1a), but also some other phases may exist, such as cubic (Figure 1b), monoclinic and tetragonal, as well as the coexistence of these.[12] X‐ray diffraction (XRD) patterns of the aforementioned polymorphs show rather similar diffraction features (Figure 1c), making it difficult to unambiguously identify crystal phases exclusively based on the experimental powder XRD data. In particular, the dominant diffraction peaks located at about 21.6°, 30.6°, and 43.9° in the XRD patterns of cubic, orthorhombic and monoclinic perovskites are almost identical. To differentiate one phase from another, one may need to focus on either the peak which is situated most closely to the second strongest peak at 30.6°, or the satellite peaks between 21.6° and 30.6°. In the case of perovskite NCs, however, the diffraction peak at 30.6° usually becomes broader compared with those of the bulk material due to the small size of the particles, while aforementioned satellite peaks are generally extremely weak or even undetectable in the XRD pattern because of nonfavorable orientation of NCs with respect to the incident X‐ray sources.[13] In such circumstances, other advanced characterization tools, including high‐resolution transmission electron microscopy (HR‐TEM), high‐angle annular dark‐field scanning TEM (HAADF‐STEM) and X‐ray absorption spectroscopy, may be required to provide further evidence on the crystal phases of perovskite NRs.[4, 14] In addition, because of the small energy difference between the orthorhombic and cubic perovskites, phase transitions induced by electron beam illumination in TEM may take place, making the phase interpretation of perovskite NCs tedious and difficult.[15]

2.1 Cubic Phase
In a cubic perovskite structure, a cation B is coordinated with six X anions forming a [BX6]4− octahedron, while a cation A is coordinated with 12 X anions forming a cuboctahedron (Figure 1b).[16] Cs, Pb, and Br atoms occupy corner (0, 0, 0), body centered (1/2, 1/2, 1/2) and face centered (0, 1/2, 1/2) positions, respectively.[17] It is counterintuitive that perovskite NCs of a cubic structure can grow into elongated NRs, because the growth rates of the crystal lattices of a cubic structure along any growth directions are identical. However, Jing et al.[10] reported the growth of cubic phase CsPbBr3 NRs by attaching CsPbBr3 nanocubes along the [100] direction of the cubic structure through a chemical transformation of polyhedral Cs4PbBr6 NCs at the water–oil interface. As a counter cation, quaternary ammonium cation (C8H17)4N+ produced by addition of tetraoctylammonium bromide (TOAB) formed an ion pair with oleic acid (OA), which in turn reduced the ligand density of OA at the surface of CsPbBr3 nanocubes and triggered their oriented attachment at the water–oil surface. However, direct evidence such as TEM data visualizing this oriented attachment process was not provided in this study,[10] and the interpretation of the rod‐shaped perovskite NCs as a cubic structure requires further investigation.

Ghosh et al.[17] prepared CsPbBr3 NRs of mixed phases from CsPbBr3 nanocubes by changing the solvent polarity from a nonpolar toluene solution to a polar dichloromethane solution. The rationale was that the original ligands possessing carboxyl (–COOH) and amine (–NH2) groups were prone to detach from the surface of CsPbBr3 nanocubes because of their strong affinity with a polar solvent, and then the formation of rod‐shaped perovskite NCs would happen by attaching adjacent CsPbBr3 nanocubes with less surface passivation ligands. The obtained perovskite NRs in dichloromethane were polymorphs composed of both cubic (60 wt%) and orthorhombic phase (40 wt%). As revealed by XRD, the cubic phase had no preferred growth direction, while the orthorhombic phase was preferentially oriented along the [202] direction. As the interplanar spacings of (100), (110), and (200) lattice planes of the cubic phase were similar to those of (101), (002), and (202) lattice planes of the orthorhombic phase, respectively, it would be easier to achieve the coherent crystal growth of the orthorhombic (202) plane on the cubic (200) lattice, which facilitated the preferential growth along the (202)orthorhombic||(200)cubic direction and finally produced elongated NRs.[17]

2.2 Orthorhombic Phase
The majority of research on perovskite NRs synthesized by wet chemical methods interpret the crystal structure of the resulting NRs as an orthorhombic phase.[7, 18] In comparison to cubic phase perovskites, orthorhombic phase CsPbBr3 perovskites are expected to have diverse facets such as (002), (220), and (200), and thus are more likely to experience anisotropic growth. Because surface energies of (002) and (220) facets are almost the same, being 0.0073 and 0.0072 eV Å−2, respectively, and both are much lower than that of (200) facet (0.0246 eV Å−2), CsPbBr3 should be expected to grow into cubic shape NCs with (002), (220), and  (22⎯⎯0)  being the dominant facets.[7]

The use of surfactants such as alkylamines and alkyl carboxylic acids in wet‐chemical synthesis was capable of producing 1D orthorhombic NCs. Imran et al.[18] prepared 1D CsPbBr3 NCs with (002), (220), and  (22⎯⎯0)  being the dominant facets in a solvent containing octylamine, oleylamine (OLA), and OA. It was worth noting that the orientation of the long axis of 1D orthorhombic NCs obtained was diameter‐dependent: thinner 1D particles with diameters of 5.1 and 3.4 nm were elongated along with the [  22⎯⎯0 ] direction, while thicker ones were elongated along the [002] direction. This difference was likely attributed to the presence of short carbon chain acid, which favored the growth along the  [22⎯⎯0]  direction while suppressing the growth along the [001] direction of the orthorhombic perovskite NCs.[18]

2.3 Tetragonal Phase
Tetragonal phase 1D perovskite NCs with a space group of I4/mcm are usually observed in vapor phase synthesized organic–inorganic perovskites.[19] The tetragonal 1D MAPbI3 NCs grew along the [100] direction, with (001) and (  001⎯⎯)  facets being the top and bottom sides, respectively. Lattice fringes corresponding to the (220) and (200) planes were clearly seen and can be indexed into tetragonal MAPbI3 perovskites, which is typical of a hexagonal structure.[20] Tetragonal 1D perovskite NCs such as MAPbBr3 and MAPbCl3 could also be synthesized using vapor phase methods.[20, 21]

2.4 Monoclinic Phase
There are several reports of monoclinic phase CsPbBr3 NRs being synthesized in a polymer matrix or through chemical vapor deposition (CVD).[7, 12] The CsPbBr3 NRs prepared by the CVD method using SiO2/Si as substrates elongated along the [100] direction with triangle cross‐section and smooth (010) and (001) surfaces, being similar to a triangular prism. The (011) plane of monoclinic phase CsPbBr3 NRs was parallel to the substrate, which could minimize surface energy and ensure the elongation of the triangular CsPbBr3 NRs along the [100] direction during growth.[12]

It is worth noting that the growth temperature plays a key role in the formation of triangular CsPbX3 NRs. For example, in the growth of CsPbX3 perovskites using the CVD method, cubic phase CsPbBr3 nanoplates were obtained at high growth temperatures, while monoclinic phase CsPbX3 NRs were formed at low temperatures.[12] Furthermore, anion exchange may also partially or completely alter the crystalline phase of perovskite NRs.[7] When starting from cubic phase CsSnBr3 NRs, monoclinic phase CsSnCl3 NRs and orthorhombic phase CsSnI3 NRs were produced through an anion‐exchange reaction.[7] In addition, 1D heterojunction CsPbBr3–CsPbCl3 NCs have been prepared through anion exchange at the solid–vapor and solid–liquid interfaces.[22] In this process, the presynthesized 1D CsPbBr3 NCs were deposited on the substrate and partially covered by poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA). After the anion exchange reaction occurred at the unmasked area, the covered PMMA was removed by chlorobenzene and hexane, producing 1D heterojunction CsPbBr3–CsPbCl3 NCs of orthorhombic and tetragonal phases, respectively, with the growth direction being along the [110] direction of the orthorhombic phase.[22]

3 Growth Mechanisms of Perovskite Nanorods
In this section, we will focus on the growth mechanisms that underpin the anisotropic growth of perovskite NRs. These mechanisms will be discussed alongside the three main contemporary approaches used for the synthesis of perovskite NRs, namely wet‐chemical, surfactant‐free substrate‐assisted growth, and anion exchange. In short, wet‐chemical routes utilize organic ligands as surfactant to mediate the anisotropic growth of perovskite NRs in chemical solvents, while substrate‐assisted growth methods are surfactant‐free approaches. Perovskite NRs with tunable bandgaps can also be readily obtained by performing anion exchange, without changing the original morphology of NRs. Table 1 summarizes the crystal structures, optical properties, and applications of perovskite NRs produced by the various approaches.

Table 1. Comparison of crystal structures, optical properties, and applications of perovskite NRs produced by various approaches
Compound	Synthetic method	Crystal structure	PLa) peak [nm]	FWHMb) [nm]	PLQYc) [%]	Application	Ref.
CsPbBr3	Organic ligand‐mediated growth	/	515	/	13.2	/	[18]
CsPbBr3	Organic ligand‐mediated growth	Orthorhombic	520	/	/	/	[23]
Cs3Sb2Cl9	Organic ligand‐mediated growth	Trigonal	/	/	/	/	[24]
FAPbI3	Organic ligand‐mediated growth	Cubic	717	/	42	/	[25]
CsPbBr3	Organic ligand‐mediated growth	Orthorhombic	515	/	90	ASE	[7]
CsPbBr3	Organic ligand‐mediated growth	Orthorhombic	495	30	76	/	[18]
CsPbBr3	Organic ligand‐mediated growth	Orthorhombic	496	16	77	/	[18]
CsSnI3	Organic ligand‐mediated growth	Orthorhombic	709	32	/	Solar cells	[7]
FAPbBr3	Organic ligand‐mediated growth	Monoclinic	496 and 534	35 and 24	32	LED	[26]
CsGeI3	Organic ligand‐mediated growth	/	696	/	/	Solar cell	[27]
CsPbI3	Organic ligand‐mediated growth	Cubic	/	/	/	Phototransistor	[28]
CsPb(Br/I)3	Organic ligand‐mediated growth	Orthorhombic	610	50	/	Photodetector	[29]
(OA)2(MA)2Pb3(IxBr1−x)10	Organic ligand‐mediated growth	Tetragonal	548–652	/	30	/	[30]
CsPbI3	Chemical cutting from nanowires	Orthorhombic	680	/	47	/	[31]
CsPbBr3	Phase transition control	Orthorhombic	517	18	87	LED	[6]
CsPbBr3/Cs4PbBr6	Phase transition control	/	518	/	90	Photodetector	[10]
CsPbBr3	Phase transition control	Cubic	520	18	56	/	[10]
CsPbBr3	Oriented attachment	Cubic and orthorhombic	521	17	58	/	[17]
CsPbBr3	Oriented attachment	Orthorhombic	520	/	10.8	/	[14]
CsPbBr3	Polymer matrix‐assisted growth	Monoclinic	526	18	30	/	[7]
MAPbBr3	Dissolution–recrystallization strategy	Cubic	533	26	/	LED	[32]
CsPbBr3	Vapor‐phase deposition	Monoclinic	534	22	/	Lasing	[12]
CsPbBr3	Vapor‐phase deposition	Monoclinic	538	15	/	Lasing	[33]
a) PL is photoluminescence
b) PLQY is photoluminescence quantum yield
c) FWHM is full wavelength at half maximum.
3.1 Wet‐Chemical Approach
3.1.1 Organic Ligand‐Mediated Growth
Organic surfactants are of significant importance in regulating the anisotropic growth of perovskite NRs, and OA and OLA are currently the most commonly used surfactants in their chemical synthesis. Liu et al.[23]reported that the molar ratio of OA to OLA played a key role in changing the dimensionality of the products from 0D nanocubes to 1D NRs (Figure 2a) and then to 2D nanoplates. When more OLA was introduced in the reaction, the long‐chain OLA would electrostatically bind to the surface of the pre‐formed monolayer nuclei to prevent them from vertical oligomerization, thus producing 2D nanoplates via oriented attachment.[23] In contrast, at a lower concentration of OLA, the surface of nuclei would be partially covered by the monomers, which favored the growth of NRs and nanocubes.[34] This dimensionality‐controlled process was attributed to the dynamics of the ligands binding to the surfaces of NCs, which facilitates the preferential growth of the nanostructures along the facets with low ligand coverage and/or binding energy of the crystals.[23] Besides OLA, other amines, such as octylamine and hexadecylamine, can also be used to mediate the anisotropic growth of perovskite NRs.[18, 24, 35] For example, Pradhan et al. demonstrated that the morphology of Cs3Sb2Cl9 NCs was changed from NWs to NRs (Figure 2b,c) by substituting OLA with hexadecylamine while keeping the other reaction conditions identical.[24] Moreover, Pal et al. found that tuning the morphology of Cs3Sb2I9 NCs in terms of nanoplates and NRs was possible by Changing the reaction temperature while adopting octanoic acid and OLA as surfactants.[36]

image
Figure 2
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a) TEM image of CsPbBr3 NRs. Reproduced with permission.[23] Copyright 2018, ACS. b) TEM image of Cs3Sb2Cl9 NRs, and c) their STEM‐HAADF energy‐dispersive X‐ray spectroscopy (EDX) elemental mapping showing the homogeneous distribution of Cs, Sb, and Cl. b,c) Reproduced with permission.[24] Copyright 2018, ACS. d) TEM image of MAPbI3 NR that were prepared at an octylammonium iodide (OAI)/OA ratio of 0.186, and e) Schematic illustration of the suggested NR formation mechanism. d,e) Reproduced with permission.[30] Copyright 2016, ACS.
The ligand‐mediated method can also be applied to synthesize organic–inorganic perovskites. Aharon and Etgar[30] utilized mixed ligands including octylammonium iodide (OAI) and OA to prepare (OA)2(MA)2Pb3(IxBr1−x)10 (0 < x < 1) perovskite NRs. In this synthesis, as a strong ligand, OAI was used to stabilize the surface of the NRs whereas OA was responsible for balancing the binding capacity of OAI in the growth of NRs. The ligand ratio of OAI/OA was crucial for perovskite NRs formation. For instance, a high concentration of strong binding ligand of OAI at the surface of NCs restricted their further growth, leading to the formation of spherical quantum dots (QDs). A ligand ratio of 0.186 for OAI and OA produced pure NRs (Figure 2d,e). A similar strategy has been employed by Huang et al.[25] who reported the synthesis of FAPbI3 NRs by controlling the concentration of formamidine. A high concentration of formamidine favors anisotropic growth of FAPbI3 NCs and leads to confinement of growth in two directions, resulting in elongated NRs.

Apart from carboxylic acids and amines, phosphines have also been used as surfactants to regulate the anisotropic growth of perovskite NCs. Recently, we reported an intermediate‐monomer‐reservoir synthetic strategy capable of producing highly emissive, stable, low defect monodisperse CsPbBr3 NRs (Figure 3a) using tris(diethylamino)phosphine (TDP) as the surfactant.[7] In this synthesis, In3+ precursor was added into a solution of CsPbBr3 nanocubes at room temperature to initiate substitution of Pb2+ by In3+ ions, producing the intermediates composed of CsPb2Br5 and Cs3In2Br9 (Figure 3b,c). As the temperature of the reaction was increased to 100 °C, the intermediates gradually decomposed by releasing Cs and Br precursors, which acted as monomers for the growth of CsPbBr3 NRs. The (002), (220), and  (22⎯⎯0)  facets of orthorhombic CsPbBr3 NCs have similar surface energies (Figure 3d, left panel), which explains why CsPbBr3 could grow into cubic shaped particles terminated by the (002), (220), and  (22⎯⎯0)  facets. However, due to the lower binding energy (−0.48 eV) on the (200) facets than other facets, the surfactant TDP could interact with the nearest four Br− ions of the (200) surface (Figure 3d, left panel), forming strong ligand adsorption states on the (200) facets. This suppresses the epitaxial growth along the [200] direction and slows down the growth rate along the [220] direction while giving rise to preferable growth along the [002] direction, and thus results in elongated CsPbBr3 NRs (Figure 3d, right panel). In addition, the TDP ligand with branched long‐chain molecular structure also provides excellent passivation and strong steric hindrance, and thus significantly improves the photoluminescence quantum yield (PLQY) and stability of CsPbBr3 NRs against water and oxygen. The intermediate‐monomer reservoir synthetic strategy opens a new avenue for the synthesis of highly uniform and low‐defect perovskite NRs.

image
Figure 3
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a) Scheme of the synthesis of CsPbBr3 NRs through an intermediate monomer reservoir synthetic strategy. b) TEM and c) HR‐TEM and HAADF image of the resulting CsPbBr3 NRs, and the corresponding elemental mapping images (bottom part). The inset reveals the FFT pattern taken from a selected area of a NR. d) First‐principles density functional theory (DFT) calculations to study the surface energy of (002), (220), and (200) facets, and the binding of these facets with TDP ligands. a–d) Reproduced with permission.[7] Copyright 2019, ACS.
The solvent polarity is another important factor affecting morphology of perovskite NCs. Li et al.[18] found that changing the reaction medium from a nonpolar solvent to a moderately polar solvent could transform the morphology of perovskite NCs from cubes to the NRs. Nearly uniform CsPbBr3 NRs were obtained in a variety of short alkyl chain alcohols with moderate polarity such as propanol, isopropanol (2‐propanol), butanol, 2‐methyl propanol, pentanol, and hexanol, but not more polar water, dimethylformamide (DMF), or dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) and not in less polar octadecene, toluene, or simple hydrocarbons. Dipole–dipole forces in the moderate polarity solvents are beneficial for the growth of ionic perovskite structure along one particular axis. Fine tuning of the aspect ratio of NRs was related to the strength of the electrometric effect because the contribution of the alkyl group to the overall dipole moment was reduced for the short‐chain alcohol solvents.[18] Importantly, this synthetic method allowed the formation of perovskite NRs in the moderate polarity solvents, extending their processing options when fabricating multilayer optoelectronic devices.[18]

In addition to solvent polarity, solution acidity can also affect the morphology of perovskite NCs. Amgar et al.[37] showed that the addition of hydrohalic acids (HX, X = Cl, Br, or I) to the reaction mixture could affect the length of perovskite NWs (Figure 4a). The addition of HX increases the acidity of the reaction solution, which leads to an enhanced protonation converting OLA into oleyl‐ammonium cations. The protonated OLA can occupy some of the positions of Cs+ and create a passivation layer on the growing surfaces, which blocks the further growth in the favored direction by the long alkyl carbon chain and shortens the length of NWs.

image
Figure 4
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a) Schematic illustration of the passivation effect of hydrohalic acids on the length of CsPbX3 NWs. Reproduced with permission.[37] Copyright 2018, ACS. b) Schematic illustration showing the transformation of CsPbBr3 perovskite NWs into CsPbX3 NRs by addition of PbX2‐ligand (OLA and OA); photograph of colloidal dispersions of CsPbX3 NRs with different halide (X = Cl, Br, I) compositions under UV light illumination is also provided. Reproduced with permission.[31] Copyright 2018, Wiley‐VCH.
3.1.2 Chemical Cutting from Nanowires
Controlling the concentration of PbX2 (X = Cl, or I) ligands as additives during a postsynthetic treatment is capable of tuning the aspect ratios of perovskite NRs. This was demonstrated in a study in which the addition of PbX2 into presynthesized CsPbBr3 NWs produced CsPbX3 (X = Cl, Br, I) NRs with a small aspect‐ratio by means of their fragmentation (Figure 4b).[31] The shape transformation from NWs to NRs during the halide ion exchange process was similar to disintegration of 3D perovskites into 2D nanoplates due to the soft and ionic nature of perovskite materials.[38] It is noteworthy that the fragmentation of CsPbBr3 NWs in the ion exchange process can also be related to their small diameters, because a small number of crystal lattices along the width direction of CsPbBr3 NWs may not be rigid enough to retain their cation sublattices during the anion exchange process. This phenomenon has previously been observed in cation exchange reactions where below some critical size, the shape of NCs evolved toward the equilibrium shape with the lowest energy, while above the critical size the anion sublattice remained intact and the basic shape of the initial NCs has been preserved.[39] Although this strategy provides an effective route to synthesize perovskite NRs with controlled aspect ratios, NRs produced through fragmentation of NWs possess abundant defects, and thus their QYs are generally inferior to those of NRs prepared by direct synthesis approaches.

3.1.3 Phase Transition Control
CsBr‐rich Cs4PbBr6 phases do not have perovskite structure, but it is possible to transform Cs4PbBr6 NCs into CsPbBr3 NRs through CsBr extraction. This can be achieved either by incorporating metal ions which have a strong affinity with Br− anions, or by dissolving CsBr into the water at a water–oil interface.[40] Sharma et al.[10] demonstrated that the treatment of 0D Cs4PbBr6 NCs using ZnI2 salt resulted in the formation of CsPbBr3 NRs. This transformation took place through the surface modification of Cs4PbBr6 NCs with Zn2+ ions, followed by the extraction of excess Cs+ ions. Increasing the amount of ZnI2 (0.01–0.05 m) in the reaction mixture allowed adjustment to the length and width of the obtained NRs to 250 to 20–30 nm, respectively. Yang et al.[6] developed a strategy to synthesize monodispersed CsPbBr3 NRs with tunable aspect ratios and clean surfaces from Cs4PbBr6 NCs by a water–oil interfacial conversion approach (Figure 5a). During the transformation, the crystal lattices of Cs4PbBr6 NCs became loose and formed some decoupled [PbBr6]4− octahedra due to the detachment of CsBr from the parent Cs4PbBr6 NCs at the water–oil interface. Meanwhile, the surface ligands also partially detached from the surfaces of Cs4PbBr6 NCs during the CsBr‐stripping process.[6] As the reaction proceeded, [PbBr6]4− octahedra adhered randomly and formed bigger hexagonal particles, which then self‐organized into NRs driven by the van der Waals force.[6] By changing the time of the CsBr‐stripping process, and the concentration of Cs4PbBr6 NCs, CsPbBr3 NRs with different aspect ratios ranging from 2 to 17 were obtained. This approach could accurately control the aspect ratio of CsPbBr3 NRs; however, it requires a longer reaction time from a few hours to a few days due to the slow chemical transformation process.

image
Figure 5
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a) Schematic illustration of the CsBr‐stripping process along with the partial removal of capping ligands, which was used to produce monodisperse CsPbBr3 NRs from Cs4PbBr6 NCs. Reproduced with permission.[6] Copyright 2019, ACS. b) TEM and c) HRTEM image of CsPbBr3 NRs, and d) their UV–vis absorption and PL spectra. b–d) Reproduced with permission.[10] Copyright 2019, RSC.
The strategy to extract CsBr from Cs4PbBr6 NCs for the synthesis of perovskite NRs at the water–oil interface was further modified by Jing et al.[10] who employed TOAB as a counter cation to control the kinetics of the conversion process. Cs4PbBr6 nanopolyhedra initially passivated by OA ligand were transformed into CsPbBr3 nanocubes, which were well‐dispersed in the oil phase. As TOAB was added into the solution, the quaternary ammonium cation (C8H17)4N+ produced from TOAB formed an ion pair with OA, which in turn reduced the ligand density of OA at the surfaces of CsPbBr3 nanocubes. Then, the less ligand‐protected CsPbBr3 nanocubes self‐organized into elongated NRs through oriented attachment mechanism. The obtained CsPbBr3 NRs had their long axis along the [100] direction of a cubic structure (Figure 5b,c), and showed a narrow PL peak centered at 520 nm with a full wavelength at half maximum (FWHM) of 18 nm (Figure 5d). By changing the amount of TOAB, the NRs with similar widths and controlled aspect ratios from 2 to 10 were formed. Employing a higher concentration of TOAB can make this assembly process less controllable, producing irregular nanobelts or nanoplates, so that with the aid of TOAB as the counter cation, this phase transition method is more capable of controlling the length of perovskite NRs.

3.1.4 Oriented Attachment
As previously noted above Ghosh et al.[17] found that, as a dispersion solvent, dichloromethane (DCM) could induce the morphology change of CsPbBr3 NCs from nanocubes to rods. The head group (–COOH/–NH2) of OA and OLA capping ligands exhibit strong affinity toward the DCM solvent, resulting in their detachment from the surface of CsPbBr3 nanocubes and the formation of bare CsPbBr3 nanocubes. Then, attachment occurred between the adjacent bare CsPbBr3 NCs along their low surface energy facets of (202), resulting in the formation of orthorhombic CsPbBr3 NRs. The oriented attachment of perovskite NCs may also occur directly during the synthesis. Tong et al.[14] found that increasing the reaction time while maintaining the other synthesis conditions as those for the preparation of nanocubes was able to facilitate the assembly of the nanocubes into NRs (Figure 6a). In a typical synthesis, after the reaction has proceeded for 10 min, homogeneous nanocubes with an average size of 12 nm are obtained, while for a prolonged reaction time of 30 min, NRs with lengths of 1–3 µm are formed (Figure 6b–d). A close inspection into the intermediate products and the connecting area of two fused nanoparticles revealed that their crystal lattices were indeed oriented (inset of Figure 6d), which provided direct evidence on the oriented attachment mechanism that is responsible for the formation of 1D perovskite NRs in that case.[14, 41]

image
Figure 6
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a) Illustration of the transformation of initially formed CsPbBr3 nanocubes into CsPbBr3 NRs. b–d) TEM images were collected at different times of this process, namely: b) 10 min, c) 20 min and d) 30 min. Inset in (d) exemplifies the connecting area of two fused nanoparticles. a–d) Adapted with permission.[14] Copyright 2017, Wiley‐VCH.
3.2 Surfactant‐Free Substrate‐Assisted Growth
The synthetic strategies discussed so far utilize capping ligands to control the shape and the aspect ratio of perovskite NRs. Fabrication of 1D perovskite NCs are also possible through ligand‐free approaches. In this section, we will discuss three major ligand‐free approaches for the synthesis of perovskite NRs, polymer matrix‐assisted growth, dissolution–recrystallization strategy and vapor‐phase deposition method.

3.2.1 Polymer Matrix‐Assisted Growth
Compared to the wet‐chemical approach of making perovskite NRs with use of the suitable surfactants, in situ fabrication of perovskite NRs in polymer matrix provides yet another route to synthesize anisotropic halide perovskite NRs.[7, 42] He et al.[7] developed a swelling–deswelling microencapsulation strategy to produce CsPbBr3 NRs (Figure 7a). In this approach, perovskite precursors were spin‐coated onto a polymer matrix, and DMF solvent was used to induce the matrix swelling, forming stripe‐shaped droplets. Subsequently, evaporation of the solvent led to accumulation of the precursors in those droplets, with perovskite NRs formed from the supersaturated precursors. The shrunken polymer acts as a passivating and protecting matrix for incorporated CsPbBr3 NRs. The concentration of the precursors could be optimized to control the aspect ratio of NRs. A low precursor concentration and high speed of spin‐coating would lead to formation of smaller droplets, which then result in the formation of shorter NRs. Moreover, the type of the polymer used provided additional means to control the morphology of the NRs by changing the cluster morphology, swelling rate and droplet formation, and distribution dynamics.[7]

image
Figure 7
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a) Scheme of the formation process of CsPbBr3 NRs through the swelling–deswelling microencapsulation process, and fluorescence microscopy images of the produced NRs. Reproduced with permission.[7] Copyright 2018, RSC. b) Top‐view SEM image of a MAPbBr3 NR array; the inset shows a cross‐sectional view of the array. Reproduced with permission.[32] Copyright 2018, ACS. c) SEM image of the CsPbBr3 NRs; the inset provides an enlarged tilt view of a single rod, showing a triangular cross‐section and a smooth end facet (scale bar, 400 nm). d) SEM image of an individual CsPbBr3 NR with the corresponding EDX mapping, showing the uniform spatial distribution of Cs, Pb, and Br elements. Reproduced with permission.[12] Copyright 2017, ACS.
3.2.2 Dissolution–Recrystallization Strategy
The relatively weak ionic bonding in perovskites enables direct surfactant‐free growth of NCs from powder precursors dissolved in polar solvents such as DMF, DMSO, or a mixture of polar solvents. Wong et al.[32] reported a substrate‐guided method to grow vertically oriented MA‐based lead bromide NR arrays with a linearly polarized emission. They were made by spin‐coating a lead acetate precursor onto indium tin oxide (ITO)/glass substrate precovered with poly(3,4‐ethylenedioxythiophene) polystyrene sulfonate (PEDOT:PSS), followed by immersion into a MABr solution in 2‐propanol. The obtained NRs had a square cross‐section, with a length of 1 µm and a diameter of 100 nm (Figure 7b). A transition layer made of MAPbBr3 particles with a thickness of about 100 nm was also formed on the substrate (inset of Figure 7b). While this dissolution–recrystallization approach could produce high‐quality perovskite NRs arrays, their areas are limited due to the limitation of the spin‐coating method, and some scaling‐up strategies are in need to be developed for their practical applications.

The morphology of the perovskite NRs can also be modified during the synthesis to form porous structures. Porous MAPbI3 NRs were realized using a ligand‐free strategy[43] wherein FA group was used to enhance the interaction with PbX6 octahedra. Dai et al.[44] combined the two groups, MA and FA, in one structure to prepare single‐crystalline hybrid FA1−xMAxPbI3 NRs, where shape control has been achieved by changing the ratio of FA to MA, from 0 to 1. The obtained hybrid NRs showed composition‐tunable emissions in the near‐infrared spectral range from 780 to 820 nm. We note that MAPbI3 typically forms tetragonal perovskite phase with a space group I4/mcm, while FAPbI3 crystallizes into the hexagonal phase with a space group P63mc. However, since the MA cation has a smaller radius than FA, their mixed‐cation perovskite FA1−xMAxPbI3 has a cubic perovskite phase, which results in a decreased tolerance factor. The FA1−xMAxPbI3 NRs with near‐infrared emission produced by a ligand‐free method make them relevant for medical and optoelectronic applications.[44]

3.2.3 Vapor‐Phase Deposition
Vapor‐phase deposition has been widely used in semiconductor industries to fabricate thin films and coatings.[12, 45] Recently, this method was adopted to synthesize cesium‐based perovskite NRs with a triangular cross‐section (Figure 7c),[12, 33] with a length of 2–20 µm and uniform distribution of Cs, Pb, and Br elements (Figure 7d). PL tunability over the whole visible spectral region from 415 to 673 nm was demonstrated by changing the halide content. The temperature was shown to play an important role in the vapor‐phase deposition synthesis, and enabled the control of crystal structure of the perovskite material: cubic phase nanoplates were obtained at a relatively high temperature, while monoclinic CsPbBr3 NRs were formed at a lower temperature. Single‐crystalline perovskite NRs with a triangular cross‐section demonstrated a uniformly high Q factor of ≈3500, suggesting their great potential laser applications.[12]

3.3 Anion Exchange Reactions
Ion exchange reactions have been extensively studied for a great variety of II–VI, III–V, and IV–VI colloidal NCs.[46] In this synthetic approach, cations or anions are introduced into a reaction mixture to replace the ions in a parent NC with an aim to realize the alteration of the compositions and optical properties of the resulting materials while retaining the morphology of the original NCs.[47] As perovskite NCs have a highly ionic nature on the X site and a rather rigid cationic sublattice (B site), anion exchange reactions have been commonly conducted to produce perovskite NRs with tunable bandgaps, and thus different emission colors (Figure 8).[18, 31, 32] This has been performed at room temperature by the addition of PbX2‐ligand complexes into a toluene solution of CsPbBr3 NRs to produce multicolor emitting perovskite NRs.[18] The PL peak of chloride exchanged NRs blueshifted to 415 nm, while the PL peak of iodide exchanged NRs redshifted to 662 nm. Moreover, ZnI2 and MAI vapors have been used as iodide precursors to conduct anion exchange on CsPbBr3 and MAPbBr3 NRs, and synthesized CsPbI3 and MAPbI3 products with red emission, respectively.[31, 32] Thus, anion exchange provides a facile route to synthesize multicolor emitting perovskite NRs, which can be conveniently conducted in place of their direct synthesis.

image
Figure 8
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Schematic illustration of anion exchange in perovskite NRs. The compositions of products in the anion exchange reactions such as CsPb(Br/Cl)3 and CsPb(Br/I)3 could be adjusted by altering the amount of precursors and the reaction time.
4 Improving Properties of Perovskite Nanorods for Emerging Applications
4.1 Thermal Stability and Water‐Resistance
The environmental stability of perovskites is of paramount importance for their practical applications. Due to their ionic nature, perovskites are easily degradable in the presence of polar solvents, high humidity and high temperature.[1] As previously shown in Figure 3d, TDP ligand has been used as surfactant to mediate the anisotropic growth of CsPbBr3 NRs.[7] The films prepared from TDP ligand passivated CsPbBr3 NRs showed improved thermal stability (Figure 9a) and water‐resistance (Figure 9b) compared with those prepared from OLA‐ and OA‐stabilized CsPbBr3 nanocubes. The rationale here is that a branched TDP ligand provides better steric protection than the commonly used ligands such as OA and OLA. Besides TDP, other branched molecules, such as iminodibenzoic acid (IDA) and didodecyldimethylammonium bromide (DDAB),[48] have been used to improve the stability of perovskite NRs through passivating their surfaces.

image
Figure 9
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a,b) Comparison of PL intensities of the films made of CsPbBr3 nanocubes and NRs placed in water (a) and on a hot plate (b). a,b) Adapted with permission.[7] Copyright 2019, ACS. c) Relative PLQY of GO‐g‐PAA encapsulated CsPbBr3 NRs over different times upon mixing with water. d) Comparison of PLQYs of GO‐g‐PAA encapsulated and free CsPbBr3 NRs at different temperatures. c,d) Adapted with permission.[49] Copyright 2017, ACS.
Encapsulation into inert protective matrices is another common approach to improve the stability of the perovskite NRs.[7, 49] Pan et al.[49] used poly(acrylic acid)‐grafted graphene oxide (GO‐g‐PAA) as a matrix to prepare ternary CsPbBr3 NC‐GO‐g‐PPA hybrids and then assembled them into NRs through a solvent polarity driven process. This strategy provided effective encapsulation of embedded perovskite NRs and significantly improved their stability toward protic solvents and enhanced their thermal stability. In comparison with free CsPbBr3 NCs, the relative PL intensity of GO‐g‐PAA encapsulated CsPbBr3 NRs retained 70% of its original value after being exposed to liquid water for 12 h (Figure 9c). Additionally, after heating at 85 °C for 5 min, GO‐g‐PAA encapsulated CsPbBr3 NRs maintained 77% of their original PLQY, whereas the PLQY of free CsPbBr3 NCs decreased to 15% under the same condition (Figure 9d). In related work, polystyrene was used to encapsulate CsPbBr3 NRs to improve their stability. After being immersed in water for over 9 months, polystyrene encapsulated CsPbBr3 NRs still kept the PLQY of 40%.[7] When CsPbBr3 NRs embedded films were heated to 80 °C, the PL intensity of films decreased to about 25% of the original value, but could be fully recovered back when the temperature was decreased to room temperature.[7

4.2 Linearly Polarized Luminescence
Linearly polarized emission is one of the most useful characteristics of rod‐like nanostructures,[51] as has been well documented for the previously developed CdSe and CdSe/CdS core/shell NRs.[7, 52] It is important to note that the polarized emission of the NR systems arises from the ground state of the excitons (the band‐edge state), and therefore the ground state wave functions’ symmetry significantly affects the polarization of the emitted light.[52] In spherical quantum dots, the lowest excitonic state is the ± 2 dark state, followed by the second lowest the ± 1L bright states (Figure 10a).[50] The symmetry of all these states results in a planar polarization of the emitted light in the xy plane.[53] For NR systems, the rod's aspect ratio largely determines the relative order of the excitonic states, and therefore strongly influences the polarization of the emitted light. As the rod's aspect ratio increases, the energy of the ± 1U states increases and the oscillator strength of the ± 1L states decreases dramatically (both ± 1U and ± 1L states have dominant hole pxy atomistic component) (Figure 10b). Meanwhile, the energy of the dark 0L state and bright 0U state decreases (both 0L and 0U states have dominant hole pz atomistic component) (Figure 10b). All these changes lead to the crossover between the pxy and pz, which is expected to induce a sharp transition in the polarization of the emitted light.[52] The polarization ratio is defined as[54]
𝑃 =𝐼∥−𝐼⊥𝐼∥+𝐼⊥ 
 (1)
where P is the polarization ratio, I∥ and I⊥ represent the emission intensity emitted with polarization parallel and perpendicular to the alignment direction, respectively. As will be discussed below, perovskite NRs can also possess linearly polarized light emission, which renders them potential candidates for LCD backlights.[55]
image
Figure 10
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
The size dependence of the exciton band‐edge structures in a) spherical dots and b) NRs. Reproduced with permission.[50] Copyright 1996, APS. c) PL polarization of unstretched (top)/stretch‐aligned (bottom) CsPbBr3 NRs polymer films. Reproduced with permission.[7] Copyright 2018, RSC. d) Comparison of anisotropy values of CsPbBr3 nanocubes and short and long NRs at different wavelengths of emission. Reproduced with permission.[18] Copyright 2019, ACS.
Spatial orientation and alignment of NRs over relatively large areas is an approach for investigating the ensemble polarization of NR systems while avoiding the cancellation effect caused by the random orientation of NRs. This can be achieved by mechanical stretching of polystyrene films embedded with CsPbBr3 NRs.[7] The measurements on CsPbBr3 NRs led to a polarized emission with degree of polarization of 0.23 (Figure 10c), which is lower than the values (0.45–0.6) obtained for the CdSe/CdS dot‐in‐rod systems.[52, 56] Further improvement of the polarization could be achieved through increasing the aspect ratio of CsPbBr3 NRs, and using a polymer matrix with lower dielectric constant.[7] Li et al. studied the polarized emission of short and long CsPbBr3 NRs with lengths of 11 and 23 nm, respectively, by dispersing them in a viscous solvent of cyclohexane to minimize Brownian rotational diffusion,[18] and obtained emission anisotropy of about 0.2 for the longer rods (Figure 10d). The difference in the transition dipole moments along the longitudinal and transverse directions of NRs was responsible for the higher anisotropy observed for the long CsPbBr3 NRs.[18]

5 Optoelectronic Applications of Perovskite Nanorods
5.1 Solar Cells
Metal halide perovskites have attracted a lot of attention in the photovoltaic community, due to their high absorption coefficients, high charge carrier mobility, and long carrier diffusion lengths.[58] Recently, a photoelectric conversion efficiency (PCE) of 25.2% has been achieved in perovskite solar cells, suggesting realistic prospects for their commercialization.[59] Because the volume of a NR is much larger than that of a spherical QD of the same composition with similar bandgap, NRs have larger per‐particle absorbance cross‐sections, which results in a higher efficiency in solar energy harvesting.[60] Covering the electrodes by a single layer of NRs is an approach to increase their optical density and improve light harvesting in photovoltaic applications. There is a strong push toward using lead‐free perovskites for more environmentally friendly solar cells.[7, 27] As one of the most extensively studied lead‐free perovskite materials, CsSnI3 NCs have been used in photovoltaic devices, and the performance of the devices indeed strongly depended on their shape. Solar cells based on CsSnI3 NRs with a diameter of 5 nm and a length of ≈30 nm showed a short‐circuit current density (Jsc) of 23.21 mA cm−2, open‐circuit voltage (Voc) of 0.86 V and PCE of 13%[7] (Figure 11a, red curve) while those based on spherical CsSnI3 QDs with a diameter of 10 nm had a Jsc of 23.89 mA cm−2, Voc of 0.42 V and PCE of up to 5.03% (Figure 11a, blue curve).[61] Considering that CsSnI3 NRs (Eg = 1.87 eV) with a diameter of 5 nm have a larger bandgap than CsSnI3 QDs (Eg = 1.79 eV) with a diameter of 10 nm, it is anticipated that NR‐based solar cells may have even better performance.

image
Figure 11
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a) J–V characteristics of solar cells employing CsSnI3 NRs (red) and CsSnI3 QDs (blue). Data reproduced from Ref. [7] and. [61]. b) CE–L–EQE curves of CsPbBr3 NR‐based LEDs. The inset shows a photograph of the green‐emitting LED operated under the bias of 5 V. Reproduced with permission.[6] Copyright 2019, ACS. c) J–V curves for the FAPbBr3 nanocubes (black) and NRs (red). Reproduced with permission.[26] Copyright 2019, ACS. d) Dependence of illumination power density on responsivity and Iphoto/Idark ratio of the 2,7‐diocty[1]benzothieno[3,2‐b]benzothiophene (C8‐BTBT)/CsPbI3‐NRs‐based phototransistor at VG = −60 V, VD = −30 V. Reproduced under the terms of the CC‐BY Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0).[28] Copyright 2018, The Authors, published by Springer Nature. e) Biexciton lifetimes of CsPbBr3 NRs (blue spheres) and QDs (gray spheres) as a function of their volume. Inset: Comparison of biexciton lifetime of 0D and 1D NCs with similar bandgap. Reproduced with permission.[57] Copyright 2019, ACS. f) Pump fluence‐dependent emission of CsPbBr3 NRs. Reproduced with permission.[7] Copyright 2019, ACS.
5.2 Light‐Emitting Diodes
The remarkably high PLQYs of perovskite NCs make them extremely promising for LEDs.[62] Green‐emitting LEDs fabricated by using CsPbBr3 NRs (width × length = 20 nm × 120 nm), showed a current efficiency of ≈25.7 cd A−1 and a moderate external quantum efficiency (EQE) of ≈8.2% (Figure 11b).[6] In contrast, CsPbBr3 nanocubes (8 nm in diameter) based LEDs had a current efficiency of ≈66.7 cd A−1 and an EQE of ≈16.48%, which are two times higher than those of CsPbBr3 NRs based LEDs.[63] In comparison to perovskite NCs with the dimensions of 10–20 nm or below, larger perovskite NCs with the dimension of 200 nm or above have a lower surface‐to‐volume ratio. Thus, for perovskite NRs, merits of enhanced charge transport and mobility may well outweigh the problems of surface defects. As a result, LEDs based on FAPbBr3 NRs exhibited a sevenfold higher current density and a sixfold electroluminescence intensity at the same bias compared with LEDs based on FAPbBr3 microcubes (Figure 11c).[26]

5.3 Photodetectors/Phototransistors
Perovskite NRs are attractive for photodetectors owing to their few grain boundaries, low charge carrier rate, long charge carrier lifetime, and large specific surface area.[12, 29, 64] Among various photodetectors, perovskite phototransistors are characterized by high internal photocurrent gain due to the inherent amplification function.[65] Through integrating them with other functional materials, hybrid phototransistors can show even higher photoresponsivities, due to the synergistic function of the photogating and field effects.[66] Recently, high‐performance phototransistors combining an organic semiconductor C8‐BTBT with CsPbI3 NRs layer were reported, which took advantage of the broad absorption of NRs and high carrier mobility of the organic semiconductor. These hybrid phototransistors showed a high photoresponsivity of 4300 A W−1 and high photocurrent‐to‐dark‐current ratio (Iphoto/Idark) of 2.2 × 106 (Figure 11d).[28] Moreover, because the Cs‐based perovskites tend to have higher stabilities, and the organic semiconductor acted as a protective layer to protect perovskite materials from atmospheric moisture, these devices showed reasonable long‐term stability over at least one‐month storage under ambient conditions.[28]

5.4 Lasing
Perovskite NRs are attractive as optical gain media for ASE and lasing. The population inversion in the gain media is the prerequisite to realize optical amplification, so that the emitted light dominates over the light absorption in the material.[67] This process involves exciton radiative recombination that competes with the deactivation of multiple exciton state by Auger recombination.[68] It was reported that the Auger recombination times for the CsPbX3 (X = Cl, Br, I) NCs were size and morphology dependent.[57] The biexciton Auger lifetime (τ) of 0D CsPbBr3 NCs scales linearly with their volume (Figure 11e), and the biexciton Auger recombination rate (1/τ) can be expressed as  1𝜏=𝑉QD𝐴Aug , where VQD is the QD volume and AAug is the biexciton Auger recombination rate per unit volume.[7, 57, 69] Due to the enhanced Coulomb interaction and the relaxation of the momentum conservation in QDs, the Auger recombination lifetimes become extremely short (several to tens of picoseconds), which is much smaller than the corresponding spontaneous emission lifetime (tens of nanoseconds).[70] In the case of 1D NRs, because the exciton motion along the nonconfined dimension is diffusive, the biexciton Auger recombination rate (1/τ) is the product of collision frequency (Fc) and Auger recombination probability per collision (PAug), which can be expressed as:  1𝜏=𝐹c𝑃Aug =(𝜐⎯⎯𝐿NR) 𝑃Aug , where  𝜐⎯⎯  is the average exciton diffusion velocity, and LNR is the rod length. Thus, the biexciton lifetimes of NRs scale linearly with their length. For CsPbBr3 QDs and NRs with a similar diameters (≈3 nm) and bandgaps (≈2.76 eV), the biexciton lifetime for NRs (21.3 ± 1.3 ps) was approximately sevenfold larger than for QDs (3.14 ps), as shown in the inset of Figure 11e.[57] This demonstrates that perovskite NRs have lower Auger recombination rates, making them as ideal optical gain materials for ASE and lasing.

The lasing performance of perovskite NRs can be further improved by employing the resonant cavities, and reducing defects in the NRs.[12, 68] As already mentioned above, CsPbX3 (X = Cl, Br, I) NRs prepared by the CVD method possess smooth and flat surfaces with a well‐defined triangular cross‐section.[12] Those desirable features enable CsPbX3 NRs to form a high‐quality Fabry–Perot type resonant cavity. Under a femtosecond laser pumping, these NRs showed a tunable lasing covering almost the whole visible spectral region with a threshold as low as ≈14.1 µJ cm−2.[12] In addition, it was found that reducing the defect density is an effective approach to enhance ASE of perovskite NRs. For example, low defect CsPbBr3 NRs showed an ASE mode with an ultralow threshold of 7.5 µJ cm−2 (Figure 11f), and a record value of an optical gain of 980 cm−2 when pumped by a nanosecond laser,[7] which is comparable with the values typically obtained in perovskite nanocubes pumped by femtosecond lasers.[71]

Despite aforementioned remarkable progress made in lasing performance, the fast Auger recombination rate in the perovskite NRs is still unfavorable for the operation in a long pulse duration and continuous wave mode.[72] To address this issue, one may try to extend Auger lifetimes using suitable organic cations in perovskite NRs.[73] Since the carrier interactions on picosecond time scales can be mediated by the organic cations, the biexciton Auger rate of the organo‐metal perovskite NCs showed weaker volume dependence as compared with that of the Cs‐based perovskite NCs, making their biexciton Auger recombination rates lower.[73] Another option for suppressing the Auger recombination is to fabricate perovskite NRs with a core–shell structure as in common for the conventional II–VI semiconductor NRs, in order to mediate the spatial distribution of carriers by engineering the bandgap alignment, which could reciprocally reduce the Auger recombination rate.[74]

Outlook: Present synthetic strategies considered in this Progress Report are capable of producing metal halide perovskite NRs with a good degree of control over sizes, aspect ratios, and compositions. Some potential applications of these NRs in solar cells, LEDs, photodetectors/phototransistors, and lasers were demonstrated. However, there are still several issues outstanding, and some obstacles to be tackled before the widespread applications of perovskite NRs. We can foresee several aspects of research on perovskite NRs that may be worthy of investigation in the near future.
The elongated 1D shape of perovskite NRs opens up plenty of opportunities for self‐assembly of these NRs into hierarchical structures with great potential for high‐performance optoelectronics and lasers.[75] Understanding the driving forces of interactions between nanoparticles and the surface ligand engineering is the key point toward the successful realization and control of assembly of 1D perovskite NRs.

Current research on the high‐quality lead‐free perovskite NRs is still in the early stages of development. Utilization of other metal cations such as Bi, In, Ag and Sn to produce lead‐free perovskite NRs is a research direction with great importance, which can be accomplished by combining comprehensive understanding of growth mechanisms with state‐of‐the‐art synthetic approaches.

Through functionalization with hydrophilic surface groups, the perovskite NRs can be rendered water‐soluble, or even directly synthesized in water. This may open an avenue for their applications in bioimaging and biomedicine. Toward this goal, improving water‐resistance of perovskites need to be addressed, with some initial studies beginning to appear in the literature.[76]