Abstract: A new direction for developing electrocatalysts for hydrogen fuel cell systems has emerged, based on the fabrication of 3D architectures. These new architectures include extended Pt surface building blocks, the strategic use of void spaces, and deliberate network connectivity along with tortuosity, as design components. Various strategies for synthesis now enable the functional and structural engineering of these electrocatalysts with appropriate electronic, ionic, and electrochemical features. The new architectures provide efficient mass transport and large electrochemically active areas. To date, although there are few examples of fully functioning hydrogen fuel cell devices, these 3D electrocatalysts have the potential to achieve optimal cell performance and durability, exceeding conventional Pt powder (i.e., Pt/C) electrocatalysts. This progress report highlights the various 3D architectures proposed for Pt electrocatalysts, advances made in the fabrication of these structures, and the remaining technical challenges. Attempts to develop design rules for 3D architectures and modeling, provide insights into their achievable and potential performance. Perspectives on future developments of new multiscale designs are also discussed along with future study directions.

Introuduction: Developing high‐performance, cost‐effective, and durable catalysts for hydrogen energy conversion systems has become a growing focus of scientific research, with the goal of developing clean and sustainable energy technologies as alternatives to fossil fuels.[1-3] Among these alternatives, fuel cell technology platforms chemically convert fuel (hydrogen) directly into electricity through a pair of redox reactions promoted by an oxidizing agent (oxygen).[4, 5] Fuel cells are considered likely by many to play a central and integral role in future renewable energy developments. However, reducing their cost has been a significant challenge, and is critical for promoting future studies and accelerating market growth.[6-8]

Currently, noble Pt materials are the most favored electrocatalysts for the electrochemical reactions at both the anode and cathode in fuel cells. The cathodic oxygen reduction reaction (ORR) rate is substantially slower than the anodic hydrogen oxidation reaction by several orders of magnitude. When properly tailored in electrodes, Pt materials provide fast reaction kinetics, good electrical conductivity, and high chemical stability in strongly acidic electrolytes.[9-11] Conventional electrocatalyst structures generally employ fine Pt powders (2–3 nm) supported on high surface area carbon (Pt/C). However, as the number of large scale energy applications continues to increase, the high required Pt loading (typically ≈0.5 mg cm−2 for commercial electrodes) and high cost of this precious metal (≈$1000 per troy ounce) pose significant barriers to the widespread use of fuel cells containing Pt materials. The quantity of Pt required to achieve the targeted electrode performance significantly contributes to the high cost of fuel cell systems.[12-14]

In recent decades, significant efforts have been devoted to investigating the principles underlying the electrocatalyst layer, where the electrochemical reactions occur. Further advances are urgently needed to minimize metal loading or eliminate its use. Various non‐Pt group metal catalyst alternatives have been proposed. However, to date, they exhibit inferior catalytic performance compared to Pt catalysts under actual fuel cell operating conditions. Consequently, reducing the quantity of Pt required in the electrode is considered the most commercially viable option going forward. The challenge is minimizing the use of Pt metal, without compromising the catalytic activity.[15-18]

Recently, an artificial 3D Pt architecture, constructed using extended surface areas, has attracted special interest as a new form of Pt electrocatalyst structure.[19-23] The Pt surface has a low radius of curvature and is superior to nanoparticles as a catalyst for fuel cell reactions because it possesses the electrocatalytic properties of thin‐films. The specific activity of such catalysts is nearly equal to that of polycrystalline Pt, that is, five times higher than that of the Pt/C catalysts used for the ORR process. This is exciting for fuel cell applications as an increase in the intrinsic activity of the catalytic surface can allow a lower mass of Pt to be used to achieve the same performance.[24-29]

To realize the full potential of these components, achieving the desired 3D hierarchy of the material is highly important. The architecture requires the surface area to be fully accessible to the reactant, and provide a pore structure that facilitates mass transport. The electrochemical properties of the electrode are influenced by both its chemical composition and morphology (i.e., geometry and scale). Therefore, the emphasis is now being placed on advanced concepts that can be used to prepare hierarchically porous structures in artificial materials, ranging from the molecular to macroscopic scale.[30, 31]

For example, tailoring the surface morphology and surface defects can synergetically optimize active sites and kinetic processes,[22] while the introduction of void structures can modify the conductivity and adsorption free energy. These approaches hold significant potential in the pursuit of high‐performance 3D Pt electrocatalysts. Generating voids within the morphology also facilitates electrolyte penetration, hydrogen ion (proton) diffusion to the electroactive sites, and fast release of the reaction products, thereby promoting the reaction kinetics.

Therefore, exploring synthesis strategies to realize such 3D Pt architectures is highly desirable. The resulting unique geometric and electronic structures have been shown to enhance electrocatalytic performance.[32-34] Recent studies have revealed that surface and interfacial engineering in 3D Pt architectures can achieve novel physical and chemical properties, along with superior synergetic effects for electrocatalysis. Such approaches can also provide collective benefits. They can comprehensively facilitate overall control of the electronic structure, hierarchical morphology, electrode interface, and, subsequently, the overall electrocatalytic performance. Furthermore, the synergetic optimization of these key parameters in 3D Pt architectural materials needs to be developed for practical use in advanced device applications.

In this report, we review recent advances in the utilization of 3D Pt materials, and strategies for synergetic structural transformation, with emphasis on improving electrocatalytic performance. Different methods for the design and fabrication of 3D Pt architectures are presented. In particular, the surface modification and interfacial characteristics of these precisely designed 3D structures are discussed, along with their structural functionality. The key to these structural transformation strategies lies in the synergetic interactions between the electrochemical properties arising from the newly designed structures. These approaches offer new insights into the design of 3D Pt materials and their enhancement of electrocatalytic processes. Finally, new guidelines for designing advanced 3D electrocatalyst materials are discussed to provide directions for future study.

Main: 2 The Chemical Nature of Extended Pt Surfaces for Electrocatalysis
Generally, the catalytic activity of Pt‐based materials is governed by a set of physical–chemical parameters that include size, shape, composition, and geometric morphology. Currently, fuel cells commonly employ electrodes composed of Pt/C catalysts.[4, 12, 35-37] The electrode typically comprise a polymeric ionomer binder and conductive support (such as carbon) to ensure a sufficient flow of protons and electrons to the active sites at the catalyst surface. The size and structure of the active Pt catalysts determine the electrochemically active surface area (ECSA, m2 g−1), the mass activity, and the diffusion process, whereas the pore structure controls ion conduction and mass transport processes.

Figure 1a compares the schematics of typical electrode structures of Pt/C and 3D Pt electrocatalysts. Supported nanoparticles of Pt catalysts are beneficial in terms of surface area because the ORR current density is related to the number of Pt sites available for adsorbing oxygen molecules. For example, Pt black has an ECSA of approximately 20–30 m2 g−1, whereas Pt/C shows higher values (50–100 m2 g−1), depending on the type of carbon support used.[38, 39] When downsizing the Pt catalyst nanoparticles, both the geometric and electronic structures of the Pt metal centers may be changed by several factors, including the unsaturated coordination configuration, and interactions between the metal atom and its neighboring atoms or reactants.[40]

image
Figure 1
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a) Schematic illustration of Pt/C and 3D Pt catalyst‐based electrodes in fuel cells. b) Specific and c) mass activities of Pt catalysts as a function of Pt surface area. Reproduced with permission.[11] Copyright 2005, Elsevier.
Figure 1b,c shows the specific and mass activities of the Pt/C catalysts as a function of the Pt surface area, which is inversely proportional to the Pt particle size.[11] The specific activity (A/m2) is directly related to the ORR rate, while the mass activity (A/g) indicates the relative value of the catalyst from a commercial viewpoint, and is defined as the product of the catalyst's specific activity and surface area (m2 g−1).[4] Because the specific activity consistently decreases with increasing surface area, the mass activity passes through a maximum at ≈100 m2 g−1, which corresponds to Pt particles in the size range 2.5–3.0 nm.[41-43] A further decrease in the Pt particle size increases the Pt surface area but does not result in an increase in the net ORR current because of particle size effects. The effects of particle size on the specific activity are thought to be the result of an increase in the surface coverage of OHads groups, which blocks the Pt active sites from Oads (oxygen molecule adsorption) as the particle size decreases. Other hypotheses about the effects of particle size have also been proposed.[11]

Plots of specific activity as a function of Pt surface area provide important guidance for researchers seeking improved catalysts with higher specific activities toward the ORR compared to state‐of‐the‐art Pt/C catalysts. One of the methods used to increase specific activity involves extending Pt surfaces, which has achieved structures with activities approaching that of polycrystalline Pt. Such extended Pt surface catalysts have been previously categorized into bulk surfaces, porous metal membranes, and thin‐films on high‐aspect‐ratio support particles.[4, 44] The significant increase in specific activity relative to Pt/C catalysts has been attributed to the extended film nature of the catalyst. The mass activity of such catalysts can also exceed that of Pt/C catalysts; however, the gain is often diminished by their small surface area.

Extended Pt surface catalysts have also shown improved long‐term durability when exposed to potential cycling.[4, 44, 45] The common carbon support materials used for Pt catalysts show poor electrochemical durability, as they experience corrosion due to electrochemical surface oxidation.[46] In particular, start‐ups and shut‐downs, or fuel starvation events in a fuel cell impose high electrode potentials (>1.00 VRHE), which can lead to significant carbon corrosion that results in a loss of structural integrity and densification of in the catalyst layer.[47, 48] Furthermore, weak interaction between the Pt nanoparticles and carbon support, owing to the inertness of the basal plane of carbon, can cause the Pt nanoparticles to detach from the support during fuel cell operation.[49]

Compared to Pt/C, extended Pt catalysts are also favorable in terms of resistance to surface area loss, which can be caused by mechanisms such as Pt dissolution and redeposition during cycling at 0.40 < E < 1.00 VRHE. Electrochemical dissolution can be accelerated by undercoordinated Pt sites, such as step, corner, and edge sites. Therefore, discrete Pt nanoparticles with many such sites are more easily dissolved. Lopes et al. investigated the relationship between atomic‐level structure and the stability of Pt surface atoms and observed that the degree of stability was strongly dependent on the coordination number (CN) and the arrangement of surface layer atoms.[50]

Density functional theory (DFT) has provided deep insights into ORR electrocatalysis, and a better understanding of the enhancement of the reaction by the geometric and electronic properties of Pt surfaces.[4, 51-57] The peculiar distributions of Pt atoms near surface layers in extended Pt surface materials, especially in the case of higher fractions of (111) surface facets than (100) and (211) facets, have been found to boost ORR electrocatalysis (in comparison with conventional Pt nanoparticles; Figure 2a,b).[52, 53] The observed catalytic behavior has been somewhat elucidated by DFT studies of the free energy change in each ORR step, and the onset potential of the different surface facets. The Pt (111) facets have a higher theoretical onset potential than the Pt (100) and Pt (211) facets in the ORR.[53, 54]

image
Figure 2
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a) Theoretical onset potentials for the ORR on Pt (111), Pt (100), and Pt (211) facets. Reproduced with permission.[52] Copyright 2014, Royal Society of Chemistry. b) Density of d‐states for the Pt (111) and Pt (100) topmost surfaces. The corresponding OH binding energies are given with the Pt (111) orientation italicized. The vertical line represents the position of the surface d‐band center for the Pt (100) and Pt (111) facets. The Fermi level is set to zero. Reproduced with permission.[53] Copyright 2013, American Chemical Society. c) Calculated d‐band center for the different Pt facets as a function of the surface atom coordination number. d) Slab modes for the Pt (111), Pt (100), and Pt (211) facets. Reproduced with permission.[55] Copyright 2019, American Association for the Advancement of Science.
Comparing the electronic structures of the different Pt facets provides a better understanding of facet‐dependent ORR catalysis. DFT calculations have predicted that the undercoordinated Pt atom for the Pt (100) [CN = 8] and Pt (211) [CN = 7] surfaces will have a higher d‐band center compared with Pt (111) [CN = 9] (Figure 2c,d).[55] This indicates an increase in the O (or OH) binding energy in the undercoordinated Pt atom, leading to retardation of the rate‐limiting O (or OH) protonation step, and subsequently, a decrease in ORR activity. Note that the d‐band center is the local surface descriptor, representing surface–adsorbate interaction, and hence is directly proportional to the binding energy of the adsorbate.[56, 57]

3 3D Architecture Materials: First Steps toward the Fabrication of 3D Electrocatalysts
Sophisticated hierarchical 3D architectures can facilitate efficient contact between the reactants and products and enhance the mass transport kinetics. However, to enable the use of extended Pt surface catalysts as a component in a practical electrode layer of a fuel cell, an effective and controllable method of fabricating these structures is required. This is the key to designing and building 3D architectures appropriate for high‐performance fuel cell applications.

Among ongoing efforts to minimize Pt use, attempts to fabricate 3D electrocatalyst structures have yielded several electrochemical characterization studies, which predominantly used liquid half cells. This section provides representative examples of the 3D Pt materials used for electrocatalyst applications (primarily proof‐of‐concept studies of 3D electrocatalysts). Section 5 discusses the development of electrochemical reactions, which clearly offers important directions for future applications.

3.1 Metallic Aerogel Electrocatalysts
Aerogel methods can produce unique porous structures with coherent open networks consisting of loosely packed bonded particles, fibers, or monoliths. Such structures can be achieved without significant structural modification from a gel after the removal of the pore liquid and drying. The synthesis protocols are versatile and can be applied to several types of metallic materials. With the aerogel method, the structure mainly depends on the initial synthesis parameters, such as the amount of water, the composition and concentration of the catalyst, the solvent, and the temperature. Two factors particularly important to structural control in the synthesis of metallic aerogels are the gelation time and drying method.[58-61] In most cases, aerogel‐based metallic materials combine intriguing features such as high surface area and porosity, tunable textural properties, and surface chemistry. Consequently, these materials have generated considerable research interest, particularly for the synthesis of 3D electrocatalysts with controlled structure and morphology.

The effects of the size, shape, composition, and structure of the Pt‐based aerogels on ORR electrocatalytic activity have been extensively explored.[62-66] Wire‐based metallic aerogels derived from integrated nanoscale building blocks have been extensively investigated with the aim of achieving high electrical conductivity. The synthesis involves compositional and chemical tuning. Various types of multimetallic aerogels have been successfully formed with interconnected networks and numerous open pore structures.[67-69] In addition, to enhance catalytic stability in acid environments and extend the catalytic surface area, dealloying processes have been developed using wire‐based aerogel systems. By combining the aerogel synthesis with engineered building blocks and hydrogels, researchers have produced hierarchical aerogels with primary and secondary pore structures in the form of hollow shells, dendrites, and entangled metallic particles. These structures have been reported to have significantly improved electrocatalytic activity and large specific surface area.[70-72]

Figure 3a shows images of an interconnected network produced using PdNi hollow nanospheres. This method resulted in hollow cavities of 22 nm, according to pore size distribution analysis. The surface area clearly increased compared to isolated hollow nanospheres.[58] In addition, nanodendritic interconnected aerogels were successfully fabricated in a similar manner. Figure 3b–d shows hierarchical PtAg porous networks comprising primary macropores and secondary micropores, which were synthesized via in‐situ galvanic replacement during gelation of nano building blocks.[73] The resulting unique structures had high porosities and large specific surface areas measured using N2 physisorption isotherm analysis.

image
Figure 3
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a) Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image of the Ni‐Pd40Pt60 aerogels. Reproduced with permission.[58] Copyright 2017, Wiley‐VCH. b) Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and c) TEM images of PtAg nanotube aerogel with hierarchical porous structure. d) N2 physisorption isotherms of as‐synthesized aerogel, post‐treated aerogel, and the Pt black, respectively. Reproduced with permission.[73] Copyright 2016, American Chemical Society. e) SEM images of PtFe5 nanowires made via electrospinning. Reproduced with permission.[82] Copyright 2011, Wiley‐VCH. f) Electron energy loss spectroscopy maps of the as‐spun nanofibers. High‐resolution TEM (HR‐TEM) image of g) fct‐FePt nanotubes and h) the corresponding selected‐area electron‐diffraction (SAED) pattern. Reproduced with permission.[45] Copyright 2015, Wiley‐VCH.
Using metallic aerogel methods, improvements in 3D electrocatalyst performance could be achieved by exploiting the physical properties of traditional aerogels, such as their high surface area and large internal pore volume. The activities of such electrocatalysts are assumed to be significantly dependent on their exposed surface facet structures. However, the surface states such as defect density, crystallinity, and mean curvature surfaces of ligaments in noble metal aerogels have been less frequently investigated with respect to their electrocatalytic performance.

Recently, it was reported that 3D nanoporous gold with abundant (111) and (100) crystal facets can be produced in a controlled manner by optimizing dealloying methods with the assistance of surfactants.[74] Surface‐modified nanoporous gold structures have shown significantly higher electrocatalytic activity than traditional nanoporous gold. However, controlling the proportion of active and inactive facets in the 3D metal aerogel electrocatalysts is difficult. Consequently, achieving a better understanding of the effect of fabrication parameters on the balance between the various surface facets and their area ratios in noble metal aerogels should allow the development of electrocatalysts with both high activity and excellent stability.[75]

As 3D electrocatalyst platforms, the potential of aerogels to promote and accelerate electrochemical processes at the membrane‐electrode‐assembly (MEA) level is yet to be investigated. In fuel cell operations in particular, aerogel structures need to be tailored to provide a balance between surface area and mass transport. Novel surface modification and template processing methods can be applied to prepare aerogels with functional surface groups and tunable pore morphology. These approaches should also be investigated to design specific capabilities for aerogel catalysis/electrochemical applications.

3.2 Electrospun Metal Nanofiber Webs
Fiber webs have been extensively used as porous electrode materials for electrochemical processes.[76, 77] Recently, nonwoven Pt materials have been directly demonstrated as efficient electrocatalyst structures. In particular, electrospinning has been applied as a versatile and cost‐effective technique that allows the preparation of 1D nanostructured fibers with controlled structures from a wide range of materials, including metals, metal oxides, and composites, along with multiscale and multifunctional assemblies to exploit their properties.[78-80] The resulting nanofibers have controllable diameters ranging from the nanometer to micrometer scale, and possess unique structural features, such as a high surface area and inter/intra‐fiber porosity, as well as high pore volume and specific orientation. These properties make electrospun Pt nanofiber webs more advantageous than conventional Pt/C materials for electrocatalytic applications.[81-83] Furthermore, the relatively simple setup and easy scale‐up of the process may facilitate large‐scale production of nanofibers.

For these reasons, over the past few decades, electrospun nanofiber techniques have been successfully applied to produce scaffolds for 3D Pt electrocatalysts (Figure 3e).[82] There has been a particular focus on the use of electrospun nanofibers to improve fuel cell performance, as they provide low contact resistance, high mechanical strength, and good electrochemical stability. Kim et al. reported Pt alloy (PtRh and PtRu) nanowire catalysts synthesized via electrospinning and applied them as ORR catalysts.[81] The thickness of the annealed metal‐precursor/polymer mixed nanofibers was reduced to approximately one‐fifth of that of as‐synthesized nanofibers. The 60‐nm‐diameter nanowires had a macroporous structure. Nanowires of Pt and PtRh with 30‐ and 40‐nm diameters, respectively, also showed higher output characteristics than those of conventional Pt/C catalysts.

In some electrocatalyst applications, a hierarchical porosity could be desirable, where the specific surface area is increased by introducing additional pores into the nanofibers. Two primary strategies have been explored to generate porous nanofibers: selective removal of sacrificial components from the fibers, and solvent‐induced phase separation achieved by rapidly cooling the polymer fibers prior to complete solidification.[26, 84-87]

For example, to control the porosity, Lee et al. prepared nanoporous face‐centered tetragonal (fct)‐PtFe nanofibers with diameters of ≈350 nm, and thereafter annealed them in the air to remove SiO2 from the core of the nanofiber. Subsequently, they used an etching process to obtain hollow fct‐PtFe nanofibers (Figure 3f–h).[45] Intermetallic Pt nanofiber catalysts were also fabricated using the electrospinning method with an alloying treatment, which showed higher specific activity for the ORR than that of the Pt/C catalysts, as well as better long‐term durability. This performance improvement was attributed to the synergetic effect of efficient charge and mass transport capabilities due to the 1D nanostructure.

Owing to the unique structural features of nanofiber webs, the electrospinning technique plays an important role in the field of 3D structural engineering for electrocatalysts.[88, 89] However, electrospinning technology presents a few practical problems that need to be solved prior to industrial‐scale implementation. For example, in terms of fiber production for electrocatalysts, electrospinning is inferior to traditional methods of producing fibers because of its lower production rate and higher cost. It also remains a challenge to fabricate nanofibers with diameters below 10 nm.

3.3 Nanostructured Thin‐Film Electrocatalysts
The most‐studied 3D electrocatalyst in recent decades is the nanostructured thin‐film (NSTF) structure, which was introduced by 3M.[90] NSTF fabrication involves a monolayer array of oriented, nanoscale crystalline organic whiskers, such as perylene dicarboximide compounds, as a 1D support material, which are grown via sublimation. A Pt thin‐film catalyst is then coated onto the support.[44, 91-94] Pt and Pt‐alloy NSTFs with a thickness of 500 nm were fabricated on an oriented array of solid molecular whiskers using planar magnetron sputtering (Figure 4a).[91] The optimal loadings and alloying elements of the ultra‐low‐Pt electrocatalyst NSTF system were investigated for ORR activity.[95] The PtNi and PtNiFe alloy NSTFs showed a higher mass and specific activities compared with a pure Pt NSTF or a commercial Pt/C catalyst.

image
Figure 4
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
a) SEM image of typical NSTF catalysts as fabricated on a microstructured catalyst transfer substrate. Reproduced with permission.[91] Copyright 2006, Elsevier. b) Annular dark‐field scanning TEM (ADF‐STEM) image for the PtNiFe‐alloy‐coated organic whisker particle. c) HR‐TEM image of metal crystallites in organic whisker‐supported NSTF catalysts. Reproduced with permission.[96] Copyright 2008, American Chemical Society. d) SEM image of a Pt nanotube array electrode. Reproduced with permission.[108] Copyright 2014, Elsevier. e) TEM image of Pt5Cu76Co11Ni8 nanotubes synthesized using an AAO template. Reproduced with permission.[109] Copyright 2011, Wiley‐VCH. f) TEM image of the double‐gyroid PtNi structure). g) Elongated hexagonal pattern that is indicative of the [311] projection: simulated TEM image (top) and structural model (bottom). Reproduced with permission.[118] Copyright 2016, Royal Society of Chemistry. h) Schematic diagram of the fabrication process: ordered macroporous platinum electrode. Reproduced with permission.[125] Copyright 2013, Nature Publishing Group.
One of the most important factors controlling the catalytic performance of NSTF is the growth direction of the crystalline Pt, which varies depending on the deposition process and the type of support (Figure 4b).[96] The crystal growth mechanism and the morphology of the Pt deposited on the oriented 1D substrates depend on the interfacial free energy between the substrate and the Pt crystallites. Figure 4c shows the crystalline directions of each side of the Pt surface.

Garsuch et al. studied the relationship between the structural properties of Pt deposited using a high‐throughput magnetron sputtering method, and a series of underlayer materials, such as alumina, gold, titanium carbide, and titanium disilicide.[97] By growing a dense Pt thin‐film catalyst, they compensated for the lack of electrical conductivity in organic support. They also tailored the electrode to achieve hydrophilic behavior and provide a mechanism for proton transport via the water. Given the unique structure of the extended surface of the Pt covering the supports, it is expected that the thickness of the Pt (or Pt‐alloy) layer could be reduced while maintaining ORR activity, even though fewer active catalytic sites may be present than in a conventional Pt/C material.

One of the most significant structural features of the NSTF is that the ionomers are completely or substantially excluded. This is due to a thin‐film electrode that is ten to several hundred times thinner than a conventional Pt/C electrode.[98] The transport properties of the electrode are strongly dependent on the thickness of the catalyst layer, the effective diffusion coefficient, the effective ionic conductivity, and the morphology of the interface between the polymer electrolyte membrane and the electrode. The nanostructured Pt electrode also has small, rough grains exposed on the hydrophilic Pt surface, which simultaneously provide an extended surface area and a path for protons to be transported through water.

To take advantage of the high surface area and low electrochemical resistance (e.g., related to the contact resistance and proton transport), Vliet et al. developed mesostructured thin‐film (MSTF) Pt catalysts using atomically smooth continuous surfaces and wide crystalline domains (20–40 nm).[99] Magnetron sputtering was used to control the thickness of the layers and achieve a homogeneous composition. Analysis of the physical properties and electrochemical performance of the MSTF electrodes revealed that the high catalytic performance of the MSTF electrodes was more dependent on the structural mesoscale ordering than other physical dimensions, for example, the thickness, area, and porosity of the electrodes.

To investigate the electrode stability during an accelerated‐degradation test involving high voltage cycling, a series of NSTF Pt catalysts (including alloyed structures) were tested over the range 0.6–1.2 V at 80 °C. After 14 000 cycles, cyclic voltammetry data showed that the ECSA loss of Pt NSTF was less than 30% after 14 000 cycles, which was a much lower loss than that of Pt/C.[91] The superior electrochemical stability of the NSTF catalyst allowed it to endure thousands of cycles in the potential range most critical for Pt agglomeration, electrochemical dissolution, and carbon corrosion, which clearly demonstrated the key differentiating features and advantages over Pt/C catalysts for fuel cell electrocatalyst applications.

It is currently difficult to control the morphological conditions of the NSTF electrode and multifunctional pore distribution to achieve an effective three‐phase boundary.[100-103] One promising solution is a newly designed process for the synthesis of a hierarchical porous‐Pt nanostructure without crystalline organic whiskers, which is fabricated by the dealloying of heterogeneous Pt thin‐films. A Pt‐carbon bicontinuous‐nanostructured thin‐film is first deposited on Ni electrodes via radio‐frequency sputtering, followed by O2 plasma dealloying and Ar plasma treatment to selectively remove the carbon and oxide components, respectively, from the surface.[104] The new sputtering methods, combined with selective leaching via plasma treatment, produced a porous 3D Pt thin‐film electrocatalyst, with well‐connected pore structures and highly active and stable ORR characteristics, relative to conventional Pt/C. In the case of a porous, strained Pt thin‐film produced by the dealloying process, DFT calculations showed that the compressive strain generated during dealloying increased the catalytic activity for ORR. However, for such thin‐film electrodes, addressing the optimal water balance in the electrode structure at various fuel cell operating conditions is a critical issue when replacing conventional Pt/C electrodes.

3.4 Template‐Assisted Porous Thin‐Film Electrocatalysts
The templating method is one of the most important strategies for the precise fabrication of 3D nanostructures and is performed by copying a porous template structure. This powerful tool uses a predefined target backbone with the desired nanostructure to direct the formation of complex 3D structures which could not otherwise be produced.

Vertically aligned nanoporous structures of 1D anodic aluminum oxide (AAO)[24, 105-110] or polycarbonate track etched plates[111-114] have been successfully used to grow 1D nanostructures. They have also enabled the controlled formation of hierarchical 3D structures from bundles of 1D nanostructures. The sacrificial template is selectively removed after using the target materials to fill the ordered pores in the liquid or vapor phase. By controlling the diameter and length of the 1D nanostructure, these processes can produce aligned 3D metal nanostructures. Figure 4d,e shows microscopy images of self‐supported Pt nanotube arrays prepared using porous AAO as the sacrificial template.[108, 109] These hollow nanotubes had higher specific activity than Pt/C because of their high surface area, alloy structure, and uniaxial transport path.

However, 3D nanostructures fabricated with aligned 1D templates, such as the NSTF electrode, often lack appropriate contact resistance for fast charge transfer, especially at the interface with the polymer membrane. Micro/mesoporous 1D structures can collapse during cell clamping, as observed by electron microscopy, and result in poor mass transport paths and inhomogeneous pore distribution.[102, 103]

When used as 2D templates, colloidal crystals offer a versatile framework for tailoring structural complexity within 3D materials. Recent advancements in colloidal crystal templating include high throughput fabrication strategies using new types of building blocks with a hierarchical porosity and broad replicated topological diversity. These templates, which have a 3D structure that is open to the outside, include inverse‐opal structures[115-117] and silica‐based templates.[118-121] Regular units of hundreds of nanometers can be connected, which increases mass transport by shortening diffusion paths and increasing the specific surface area.[122-124]

Ordered nano/mesoporous Pt electrodes with double‐gyroid nanochannels have been reported.[118] Their periodic structures, such as interconnected dual nano/mesopores with large surface area (Figure 4f,g) provide good catalytic performance via improved mass transport. By combining various processes with the template method, it is also possible to control the physical and chemical properties of the surface to meet the requirements of fuel cell applications.

To fabricate a 3D interconnected Pt catalyst with an inverse‐opal structure, a polystyrene opal mold is prepared by self‐assembled condensation. Subsequently, Pt infiltration into the mold is achieved by a subsequent electrodeposition step (Figure 4h).[125] Pt catalysts with an inverse‐opal structure were successfully fabricated after removing the colloidal crystal template by soaking in toluene.

Galvanic substitution is one of the most effective methods for preparing 3D template‐assisted thin‐film electrodes because of the versatility of the process, regardless of the morphology of the nanostructure. It does not require an external energy supply or a reducing agent during oxidation/reduction reactions because of the difference in the standard reduction potential of the material. A material with a low reduction potential is used as a sacrificial template and is reacted with the desired metal ions to create a spontaneous substitution reaction. Metals such as Ag,[126] Fe,[127] Co,[128] Cu,[129] and Pd,[84] as well as semimetals such as Se[130] and Te,[31] have been used as sacrificial templates for the synthesis of Pt nanostructures. Recently, metal oxides such as Cu2O and Mn3O4 have also been used in substitution reactions.[131]

Several disadvantages, including a complex multistep process involving the preparation and removal of the template, the fragility of the free‐standing structures during template removal, and the relatively low yield of the resultant products, still need to be fully resolved. However, the templating method has the potential to generate a diverse spectrum of ordered 3D nanostructures for catalytic applications.[25, 132, 133]

4 Database Searching for 3D Pt Electrocatalyst Design
Computational methods have accelerated the structural design of Pt materials through efficient screening models and comprehensive prediction of the activity and stability during electrocatalysis. This section reviews the development of various computational methods for predicting new Pt electrocatalyst structures for use in fuel cell electrodes and their behavior during use. This review is not limited to conventional Pt/C electrodes, as it includes various Pt‐based catalytic structures. Hence, we discuss fuel cell catalyst models at various scales from first‐principles modeling of the Pt catalyst surface to macroscopic computational fluid dynamics (CFD) modeling for predicting electrochemical reactions and key transport processes in the catalyst layers.

The main objective of the modeling and simulation of a Pt catalyst layer is to establish relationships among electrochemical reactions, transport properties, and the physical porous structure. Kinetic and numerical modeling are widely used tools for understanding electrochemical reactions and the physiochemical phenomena of Pt electrocatalysts. The computational methods are characterized as focusing on nanoscale or microscale levels because a typical catalyst layer has a multimodal pore‐size distribution comprising primary pores (≈1 nm) and secondary pores (around 0.1–1 μm). In particular, atomic‐scale models are useful for predicting the physical properties of catalyst materials with ideal or proposed microstructures under defined conditions at a defined nanoscale. Nevertheless, such models are not efficient for investigating the random morphology of entire catalyst layers owing to the limitation of computational resources. Therefore, multiscale simulation strategies seem to be a potential bridge between atomic and microscale simulation.

The previous section clearly indicated that morphological studies and structural design can help optimize the catalytic surface area, ionic movement, diffusion of reactant species through the catalyst layer, and stability. While seeking these desired characteristics, different kinetic, numerical, and simulation strategies can be used as effective tools for analyzing the properties that affect the voltage losses occurring during fuel cell operation, which will be extensively discussed in Section 5.

4.1 Nanoscale Modeling, Simulation, and Theories
Nanoscale modeling is generally used to investigate the structural evolution and interaction between Pt and other materials, such as the carbon supports and polymeric ionomer binders (e.g., Nafion), in a catalyst layer. Two common simulation methods used for nanoscale modeling are molecular dynamic (MD) simulation and DFT simulation.

4.1.1 MD simulation
MD simulation models can provide time‐dependent (dynamic) information regarding a system with interacting particles and provides an understanding of the interactions between the structural and transport properties of the catalyst layers, especially the three‐phase boundaries. In addition, MD methods can predict the position and velocities of atomic particles and the forces acting on them.

In search of a higher electrocatalytic surface area, Xiao et al. proposed a coarse‐grained method for reconstruction of microscopic Pt catalyst structures while considering Pt/C fractions, Nafion ionomers, and substantial water content.[134] Through large‐scale MD simulations, three target box sizes were investigated, and the volume of the pores and active Pt surface areas were evaluated and compared with experimental data. During the experimental validation, the arrangement of the corresponding catalyst layers was reconstructed within a 50 × 50 × 50 nm3 volume. In the simulation box, 120 carbon slabs, 25 Pt clusters, and 26 000 water beads were modeled with periodic boundary conditions at all the faces. Based on an MD simulation for 50 ns, an equilibrium state was obtained, and each component was calibrated using the commercial software GROMACS, which provided the total surface area and volume of the Pt clusters.

Several other groups have put substantial effort into developing MD simulations for Pt nanoparticles adsorbed on carbon, with or without ionomers. Ping et al. developed an MD‐based catalyst model to investigate the structural and dynamic evolution of individual Pt nanoclusters deposited on graphite substrates.[135] This technique was proven to provide a detailed description of the dynamics of diffusion and aggregation processes. The system includes one Pt cluster on a graphite surface, as illustrated in Figure 5a. Each atom is treated as a point mass and the atomic motion is governed by Newton's equations. Their thermodynamic and transport properties were calculated by time‐averaging the group of atoms. As shown in Figure 5a,b, they analyzed two types of clusters, cube‐shaped and ball‐shaped, comprising 256 and 260 Pt atoms, respectively, with face‐centered‐cubic (fcc) arrangements. The Sutton–Chen (SC) and embedded atom methods are the two most effective choices for fcc arrangements. These models are best suited for describing Pt–Pt interactions and are suitable for providing information related to bulk and small cluster behaviors of different metal alloys. The expressions used to calculate the potential energy for the SC model are expressed as follows:
𝑉total= 𝜀[12∑𝑖≠𝑗∑(𝑎𝑟𝑖𝑗)𝑛−𝑐∑𝑖𝜌𝑖0.5]
 (1)
𝜌𝑖=∑𝑗≠𝑖(𝑎𝑟𝑖𝑗)𝑚
 (2)
where Vtotal is the total potential energy, ε is the dimension of energy, rij is the distance between atoms i and j, ρi is the density of the local electron, a is a length parameter. The first term of the equation (1) represents as pair‐wise repellent potential energy and second term stands for metaling bonding energy associated with ρi.
image
Figure 5
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Multiscale modeling results for Pt clusters with different structures. a) Cube‐shaped Pt clusters deposited on a graphite substrate. b) Ball‐shaped Pt clusters deposited on a graphite substrate. Reproduced with permission.[135] Copyright 2002, Taylor & Francis Group. c) Water management at the MEA interface. Reproduced with permission.[138] Copyright 2006, Elsevier. d) Contour plots of the binding energy (top), HOMO‐LUMO band gap (middle), and magnetic moment (bottom) of Pt clusters as a function of cluster size and structure factor. Reproduced with permission.[141] Copyright 2004, American Chemical Society.
The Pt cluster density ρ(z) can be used to define the structural properties of the Pt clusters, and is written as follows:
𝜌(𝑧)=𝑛(𝑧)𝜎3𝑃𝑡 𝑝𝑡Δℎ𝐴𝑥𝑦𝑁𝑠 
 (3)
where n(z), Δh,  Axy, and Ns are the number of Pt atoms in a slab parallel to the graphite xy plane, along with its thickness, area, and number of samples, respectively. This previous study showed that the solid–liquid transition of the cubic 256 Pt atom deposited on a graphite substrate starts to exhibit structural transformation at 600 K, while the ball‐shaped 260 atom cluster does so at 1020 K. These conditions were revealed through the analysis of density profiles and average atomic diffusion coefficients.
Lamas et al. studied the classic MD simulation of a Pt nanocluster under inert gas, which demonstrated that the presence of adsorbed molecules stabilizes the surface‐cluster atoms and changes the atomic distribution in the entire cluster.[136] At low temperatures (<300 K), the structural changes appeared in a modified layered structure, even without the presence of a gas phase. A layered structure of metal clusters also evolved at a higher temperature (>300 K), but was different from the structure evolved in a vacuum as the gas pressure is reduced. The dynamical properties of a cluster can also be changed by the presence of a gas phase at a sufficiently low temperature. At 500 K, after MD simulation, the diffusion coefficient of a Pt cluster was lower at higher pressure than in vacuum. This outcome is a result of cluster‐substrate mismatch reduction which occurred by the inert gas atoms and hence maximizes the Pt–C interactions.

Chen et al. performed MD simulations of Pt clusters on a graphite surface and investigated their diffusion coefficients and aggregation behaviors.[137] Semiempirical potentials such as the many‐body SC and Lennard–Jones (LJ) potential were used to calculate the interaction between Pt–Pt and Pt and carbon atoms of graphite, respectively. A series of MD simulations were performed to calculate the diffusion coefficients for different numbers of atoms at the equilibrium temperature of 298 K. The results indicated that Pt clusters with <40 atoms were highly mobile; however, this model cannot give accurate information regarding the size dependency of the mobility of Pt clusters.

Another classic MD simulation was performed by Lamas and Balbuena to help understand the dynamic behaviors of water and oxygen at the interface of hydrated sulfonic acid polymer electrolyte (such as Nafion) and Pt catalyst nanoparticles supported by the graphite.[138] The simulation results showed that there is an affinity between the Pt particles and sulfonic groups; thus, creating clusters of water near the active sites is favorable for proton transport from those sites. As illustrated in Figure 5c, this dynamic simulation shows how the water and proton transport processes near Pt catalyst surfaces are altered as a function of the hydrophilic electrolyte content. This study can provide useful information for designing and optimizing 3D electrocatalysts, such as NSTF catalyst electrodes that require effective proton transport in the absence of a hydrophilic electrolyte.

4.1.2 DFT Simulations
The DFT model is based on the Hohenberg–Kohn theorem and has become a popular tool, especially for investigating solid‐state surfaces.[139] With the help of DFT and MD simulations, predictions of the ionic and molecular species transport phenomena can be made. Accordingly, combined DFT and MD simulations were conducted to predict the proton and water molecule transport near the hydrated polymer electrolyte and Pt catalyst phase.[140] The simulation results indicated that the water clusters produced at the interface between the hydrated electrolyte and catalytic Pt nanoparticles facilitate proton and water transport.

Recently, most DFT calculations have focused on the morphologies and electrocatalytic characteristics of metal nanoclusters.[141, 142] Xiao et al. used DFT to predict structural, electronic, magnetic, and energetic properties of 70‐atom Pt clusters based on a plane wave.[141] Spin–orbit coupling was shown to have no effect on the binding energy of Pt clusters, which are relatively stable. At least for 9‐atom Pt clusters, the binding energies of the planar and 3D isomers were nearly equal. The equal stabilities of the planar and 3D isomers indicate that several isomers can exist. While determining the structural information about the Pt clusters, correlations were discovered between the binding energy, HUMO‐LUMO band gap, and magnetic moment; these correlations are relevant for the cluster size used in this simulation. The contour plot of the binding energy, HUMO‐LUMO band gap, and magnetic moment of a Pt cluster as a function of cluster size and structure factor, is shown in Figure 5d.[141] Kattel et al.[143] applied spin‐polarized DFT simulations to predict the ORR pathway on the Pt surface segregated Pt3‐Ti (111) surface. This ORR on the Pt3‐Ti (111) surface (contains pure Pt peripheral layer and L12‐ordered Pt3Ti crystal structure in below), by calculating the activation energy, which is significant for predicting the activation losses.

Various single‐wall nanotubes (SWNTs) and double‐wall nanotubes (DWNTs) of Pt have been numerically studied to predict structures with superior stability, and catalytic activity of ORR for fuel cell applications. Pt SWNTs were studied using spin‐polarized DFT.[144] These nanotubes contained 5, 6, or 8‐atom Pt clusters coiling around near the tubular axis and had an infinite length. The model was applied to both square and triangular structures, where the triangular structure had higher stability. Konar and Gupta studied the structure and energetics of both Pt SWNTs and DWNTs in which different chiral and achiral structures were considered.[145] Among six‐row strand nanotubes, Pt (6, 4) was shown to be very stable, while among the five‐row strand, Pt (5, 3) exhibited better stability. Matanovic et al. also studied the structure, stability, and catalytic activity of Pt SWNTs and DWNTs using plane‐wave DFT in the presence of a gas phase or water vapor.[146] The change in the catalytic activity of the ORR as a function of size and chirality of the nanotubes was investigated based on the equilibrium adsorption potential for ORR.

4.2 Microscale Modeling, Simulation, and Theories
Microscale modeling and simulation provide a link between molecular and continuum methods, which enables the study of the morphological structure, hydrodynamic behavior, and relationships between nanoparticles and polymer components. Continuum simulations are straightforward and cannot be implemented at an atomistic level to predict the interactions between atoms. Therefore, various simulation methods have been implemented to investigate microstructure, element distribution, and phase‐separation inside the catalyst layer. Monte Carlo (MC) methods, the lattice Boltzmann method (LBM), and dissipative particle dynamics (DPD) are simulation techniques that include length and timescales based on classical MD.

The MC method is a computational algorithm that depends on repeated arbitrary sampling to calculate properties. It is a mathematical and algorithmic technique used to calculatethe property of interest and was extensively described by Xiao et al.[144] There are two types of MC methods: the dynamic MC (DMC) method and the kinetic MC (KMC) method. The KMC method differs from DMC simulation because of their equilibrium condition.

4.2.1 DMC Method
The DMC method is useful for analyzing the dynamic behavior of molecules by comparing the rates of individual steps with random numbers. A first‐principles‐based reaction kinetics model was developed based on DFT and DMC simulations.[147] They showed that the active pathway for the ORR on Pt3Ni (111) has a greater intrinsic rate than on Pt (111). In addition to the standard MC method, a combination of DFT and DMC simulation was applied to study the oxygen‐containing adsorbates that originate from the electrochemical reaction of the water on Pt (111) in acidic environments.

To investigate the surface catalytic reactions of any catalyst layer, a general‐purpose program for DMC simulation was developed.[148] The input parameters for the simulation include the catalytic surface, adsorbates, elementary reaction steps, and adsorbate–adsorbate interactions, which vary for different systems. From the combination of two different solution methods, the performance of the given algorithm can be optimized. In that study, three models were selected for simulation, and it was shown that surface structures have a significant impact on the catalytic surface reaction.

4.2.2 KMC Method
The KMC method is generally used for studying the time evolution of processes occurring in nature. This method is suitable for physical phenomena and can be used for significantly longer time scales than the nanosecond range. A combination of MD and KMC models can simulate the pressure of a system. The KMC model generally obtains the physical properties required as inputs from an MD simulation or experimental data, and it mainly focuses on the complexities associated with individual interaction processes. KMC has been extensively used for simulating the cathode catalyst side of the ORR. A 3D model of the cathode catalyst layer comprising Pt and carbon spheres was first developed.[149] Later, an efficient technique for the oxygen–proton reaction process was developed and simulated. The continuous movement of oxygen atoms and protons during the reactions was simulated. The maximum distance between reaction particles in this model was 8 Å, and the model estimated the current density from the amount of ORR during each time interval. By monitoring the amount of ORR per time interval, the charge transfer (and thus, the current density) during the reaction was calculated.

4.2.3 Multiscale Modeling
Multiscale coupling at the nanoscale and microscale is useful for investigating the influence of nanostructures and operating conditions on the durability of the Pt nanoparticles. A combination of dynamic (micro and nanoscale) modeling was used to predict the stability and durability of the electrocatalyst nanoparticles, and hence that of the overall fuel cell.[150] In addition, multiscale modeling of a PtCo catalyst was performed to identify the degradation of the catalyst structure in a fuel cell.[151] The same group also studied the aging phenomena of the fuel cell cathode.[152] Their model was based on the non‐equilibrium thermodynamic approach that describes the temporal response of current perturbation applied at the electrode/electrolyte boundary. The study provided detailed information regarding the transport of protons and Pt2+ ions, coarsening of Pt particles, oxidation of Pt, ORR, and water adsorption inside the inner layer.

4.2.4 CFD Simulations
In addition to nano/microscale kinetic modeling, various CFD models and numerical analyses have been performed by different groups. Several macroscopic modeling approaches have been developed to analyze the cathode catalyst layer, although the active layer was not the focus of the research.[153, 154] These studies considered the cathode catalyst layer to be an ultrathin layer in terms of an interface or as homogenous porous layers.

A direct numerical simulation (DNS) model was developed to understand the usual pore level description of the catalyst layer.[155] This DNS model had two steps: 1) construction of the catalyst layer microstructure underlying the microscale morphology; 2) solving the charge, transport, and species conservation equation for every microstructure. The study proposed that 3D microstructures provide better delineation of the porous structure in terms of the interfacial reaction area and tortuosity compared to 2D structures. The electrolyte and oxygen concentration distributions along the catalyst layer are clearly illustrated in Figure 6a for different current densities.

image
Figure 6
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
CFD simulation results of 3D Pt catalysts and I–V curve validation. a) Electrolyte and oxygen concentration profile along the 3D porous cathode catalyst (mol m−3) field at current densities of 0.04, 0.8, and 4 A cm−2. Reproduced with permission.[155] Copyright 2006, Elsevier. b) Cathode catalyst with different pore structures. c) 3D contours of the oxygen concentration (mol m−3) at current densities of 0.5, 1.5, and 2.0 A cm−2 from top to bottom. Reproduced with permission.[156] Copyright 2006, Elsevier. d) Polarizations curves for different void and electrolyte volume fractions. Reproduced with permission.[158] Copyright 2007, Elsevier.
Later, researchers accounted for random 3D microporous structures instead of a regularly arranged structure.[156] A DNS technique was applied to the random microporous structure. A catalyst layer with a random pore structure was produced using computer‐generated random numbers with specified pore size and pore volume as input parameters (Figure 6b). Certain statistical features of the catalyst layer and their dependency on porosity were recognized and implemented. Thereafter, conservation equations of charge species were solved for microscopic structures. A 3D contour of the oxygen concentration at current densities of 0.5, 1.5, and 2.0 A cm−2 (from top to bottom) is shown in Figure 6c. The oxygen concentration at the interface between the catalyst layer and gas diffusion layer (GDL) decreased with increasing current density, despite a constant flow rate of oxygen at the cathode inlet. As the current density increased, the oxygen concentration decreased due to mass transport loss in the GDL and a high consumption rate of the inlet gas (i.e., O2). After a further increment of the current density, oxygen depletion occurred in a large region of the catalyst layer. Another DNS model coupled with a stochastic reconstruction technique was implemented to predict species and charge transfer within the cathode catalyst layer of fuel cells. The simulation results successfully demonstrated the effect of 3D morphological inhomogeneity on cell performance.[157]

To achieve superior ORR activity on the cathode catalyst layer, Wang et al. attempted to optimize the 3D random microstructure of a catalyst layer where the electronics, electrolyte, and void phases of the cathode catalyst were appropriately designed.[158] Subsequently, DNS was applied to predict the pore level description of species and charge transport through a random catalyst layer and tried to find out the inter relation between catalyst layer composition and cell operating conditions that ensure an optimal balance between oxygen diffusion and proton conduction. The optimized volume fraction of the pore and electrolyte has been predicted as 0.4 and 0.26, respectively. Figure 6d shows the optimized current–voltage characteristics for different void and electrolyte volume fractions. These modeling approaches can be directly applied to 3D electrocatalyst‐based electrodes in which oxygen and proton transport, along with the ORR, play important roles in determining the overall electrode performance.

A 3D process‐based numerical model to investigate the effect of the compositional structure of the electrode, ionomer, weight fraction, porosity, and mass fraction of catalyst layers on the transport phenomena and electrocatalytic activity.[159] Knudsen diffusion of oxygen and proton transport through nanopores and a thin‐film electrolyte were also included in a more detailed study of the catalyst layer, which was able to calculate the concentration overpotential in the cathode catalyst layer. In a similar study, a 2D agglomerate model was developed to investigate the effect of the catalyst layer structure on the performance of the cell voltage.[160]

In summary, to analyze and optimize 3D Pt architectures, first‐principles modeling and simulations of a catalyst surface based on MD, DFT, and MC approaches have been used to identify the effects of the density and composition of the catalyst material on the electrochemical kinetics and resulting in activation overpotentials during fuel cell operation. To assess the profound influences of 3D pore structures of the catalyst layer on charge and mass transport, DNS‐ and LBM‐based models were used to obtain key transport parameters as a function of the catalyst layer porosity and microstructure. Subsequently, the kinetic parameters and transport correlations obtained from these microscale simulations were applied to macroscale catalyst models and simulations that include multiscale modeling and CFD simulations.

5 Optimization of 3D Pt Architectures for High‐Performance Fuel Cell Electrodes
Section 3 discussed the major synthesis methods for 3D architectures in Pt materials. One of the main motivations of this approach is to overcome accessibility, diffusion, and mass transport limitations associated with electrochemical processes. Evidently, the geometry and chemistry of the 3D Pt architectures can be engineered to fully address the electrochemical kinetics and transport processes that affect the key performance metrics, such as energy efficiency, maximum power density, and durability in fuel cells. There are three major sources of performance loss in fuel cell reactions: activation, Ohmic, and mass transport losses. In this section, we summarize advances offered by various 3D Pt architectures in each loss regime and highlight structural transformation strategies used to realize these advances. The design strategies and the underlying electrochemical mechanisms of the 3D structures are discussed in detail.

5.1 Activation Loss Regime
In the low current density regime, activation losses arise owing to the slow kinetics of reactions occurring on the electrocatalyst surface, especially the ORR at the cathode. These losses are primarily related to the catalytic surface area and specific activity of the Pt electrocatalysts and may provide insights into the development of more active 3D electrocatalysts.

Alloying has frequently been effective in improving the specific activity. The Pt alloy materials have been investigated to improve the ORR catalytic activity. In Pt alloys, the presence of a second transition metal, such as Fe, Ni, or Co, with a lattice parameter less than that of Pt results in the compression of the lattice structure (i.e., the strain effect).[161-164] Moreover, the difference in electronegativity between Pt and the second metal causes a charge transfer from the second metal to Pt. Consequently, the Pt d‐band center is downshifted (i.e., an electronic effect).[165-167] These changes slightly reduce the oxygen binding energies of Pt alloy materials, compared with that of bare Pt materials, which significantly enhances the ORR activity.

For example, Pt alloy NSTF catalysts, such as PtNiFe, PtNi2, Pt3Ni, Pt3CoNi, Pt3Co, PtCoMn, and PtCoZr, have shown higher specific activities compared to pristine samples (Figure 7a,b).[44, 95] Among the various Pt alloy‐based NSTF catalysts, the PtNi alloy with 55 wt% Pt showed superior specific activity, exceeding the specific and mass activity of monometallic Pt NSTF and Pt/C catalysts. Compared with Pt/C, monometallic Pt NSTF exhibited lower mass activity despite its slightly higher specific activity due to its insufficient surface area. There have been significant attempts to determine the alloy effects of different types of 3D Pt architectures.

image
Figure 7
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Strategies for overcoming the activation loss of 3D Pt electrocatalysts. a) Cross‐sectional SEM image of PtCoMn NSTFs. Reproduced with permission.[44] Copyright 2013, The Electrochemical Society. b) Mass activities for ORR at 0.9 V on PtNi NSTF catalysts with different amounts of Pt compared to Pt/C. Reproduced with permission.[95] Copyright 2011, Elsevier. c) Bright‐field TEM image of an individual single‐crystal Pt nanorod fabricated via oblique‐angle deposition. (Inset: the corresponding SAED pattern). Reproduced with permission.[170] Copyright 2011, The Electrochemical Society. d) Transformation from NSTF into MSTF during annealing. e) Specific activities measured at 0.95 V and the improvement factor versus polycrystalline Pt. Reproduced with permission.[99] Copyright 2012, Nature Publishing Group. f) TEM image of PtNi nanowires g) Energy‐dispersive X‐ray line scan of cross‐sectioned PtNi nanowires. Reproduced with permission.[171] Copyright 2014, American Chemical Society. h) Top‐view SEM image of nanoporous PdCr alloy synthesized using a dealloying process. Reproduced with permission.[172] Copyright 2016, Royal Society of Chemistry.
Controlling the specific crystal planes of Pt exposed to the reactants can lower the activation loss of 3D Pt electrocatalysts. Considering Faradaic reactions, such as the ORR, the exposed crystal facets of Pt electrocatalysts play key roles in determining the electrochemical kinetic efficiency. For example, ORR activity follows the trend that Pt (110) > Pt (111) > Pt (100) in a perchloric acid electrolyte, and Pt (110) > Pt (100) >> Pt (111) in a sulfuric acid electrolyte.[168, 169]

Khudhayer et al. reported that with careful control of the facet‐controlled nanorod overgrowth, vertically aligned and crystalline Pt nanorod arrays grown via glancing angle deposition exhibited higher specific activity (Figure 7c).[170] Surface orientation analysis was combined with electrochemical characterization to optimize the sidewalls of highly selective crystallographic Pt nanorods, giving them higher specific activity compared with that of Pt/C catalysts. In a similar approach, PtNi MSTF catalysts with a substantial fraction of the surface‐oriented along low‐index crystal planes showed unprecedented 20‐fold enhancement of the activity compared with Pt/C and eightfold enhancement compared with monometallic Pt NSTF (Figure 7d,e).[99]

In addition to specific activity enhancement, the activation loss of 3D Pt electrocatalysts can be effectively lowered by tailoring the architecture to increase its surface area. For that purpose, various strategies ranging from the development of direct 3D synthetic techniques to post‐treatment of a preformed matrix have been introduced. Alia et al. utilized a spontaneous galvanic displacement reaction to increasing the surface area of preformed PtNi nanowires (Figure 7f,g).[171] Electrode structures assembled with PtNi nanowires with pore hierarchies derived from a low degree of Pt displacement yielded an exceptionally large surface area (>90 m2 g−1) and consequently exhibited improved ORR mass activity, which was 3.0 times higher than that of Pt/C. Similarly, Duan et al. reported nanoporous PdCr with a high surface area (ECSA ≈ 64 m2 g−1) comparable to that of Pt/C (Figure 7h).[172] The large surface area of nanoporous PdCr was attributed to the interconnected network structure with hollow channels formed via a simple dealloying process. This finally resulted in higher mass activity (≈1.4 times that of Pt/C). It has been also clearly documented that the use of a sacrificial template can significantly reduce the activation overpotential of the ORR.

5.2 Ohmic Loss Regime
Ohmic losses occur in moderate current regimes owing to the ionic, electronic, and contact resistances of the fuel cell components. The electronic resistance is nearly negligible for 3D electrocatalysts because of their interconnected network structure. The Ohmic loss of such electrodes is mostly due to ionic and contact resistances, which are of similar orders of magnitude.[173]

The morphological features of conventional thick Pt/C electrodes (≈10 µm) necessitate the use of an ionomer for proton conduction. It is generally accepted in the literature that proton conduction occurs mostly through ionomer films coated on the surface of Pt/C agglomerates. In addition, excessive ionomer coating may block the gas channels, leading to a decrease in the oxygen diffusion rate.[14] The performance of the electrocatalysts is therefore dependent on the optimal ionomer content in the electrodes, which should be carefully controlled. However, it is still challenging to obtain detailed experimental observations of the ionomer distribution and nanoscale morphology. Recently, theoretical approaches using MD simulation have been used to understand the effects of the surface properties by controlling the ionomer film morphology and microstructural evolution of the catalyst surface, and to optimize catalyst ink activity and slurry dispersion.[174-176]

Several experiments have demonstrated that 3D electrocatalyst electrodes unexpectedly seem to function without ionomer conduction pathways at any Pt catalyst sites in the electrode.[4, 44, 45, 125] Substantial gains in the MEA power output of a fuel cell were observed by operating 3D electrocatalysts without ionomer coverage; however, few studies have investigated the specific characteristics of proton transport resistance and the degree of Pt utilization within these ionomer‐free Pt electrodes.

Despite many experimental and computational studies to elucidating the proton conduction pathways on ionomer‐free Pt surfaces, the specific mechanism is still not well understood. The proton transportation path was attributed to surface interaction due to surface oxides on the Pt catalysts or electrostatic interaction between Pt and protons in a charged state. Recently, a proton conduction mechanism at the surface of an ionomer‐free Pt electrode was proposed (Figure 8a).[177] The proton conduction properties were observed via the surface‐adsorbed water film on the extended Pt electrode. It was postulated that the conductivity in the lower potential region is related to H adsorption on the surface, while the conductivity in the higher potential region is related to the oxide coverage, H adsorption enables proton transport in the low potential regimes, while the surface oxide results in a negatively charged surface at high potential regimes that provide the proton conduction pathway. The authors postulated that the hydrogen adatom or proton could diffuse across the electrode via this mechanism, although the surface diffusion rates in aqueous media remain unclear.

image
Figure 8
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Strategies for overcoming the Ohmic loss of 3D Pt electrocatalysts under low temperature or extra‐dry conditions. a) The reaction‐facilitated adsorbed hydrogen diffusion transport mechanisms at low cathode potential (left) and the electrical double layer charge transport of protons due to electromigration at moderate to high cathode potentials (right). Reproduced with permission.[177] Copyright 2019, Chemistry Europe. b) Schematic illustration of uncoated, ionomer‐coated, and silica‐coated NSTF. c) SEM image of ionomer‐coated NSTF. d) Fuel cell performance of uncoated and ionomer‐coated NSTF electrodes measured at 80 °C under moderate (solid lines) and dry (dashed lines) conditions. e) SEM image of silica‐nanoparticle‐coated NSTF. f) Fuel cell performance of as‐received and silica nanoparticle‐coated NSTF electrodes under moderate (solid lines), dry (dashed lines), and extra‐dry (dotted lines) conditions. Reproduced with permission.[101] Copyright 2012, The Electrochemical Society. g) Schematic illustration of a cross‐sectional multiscale Nafion membrane and corresponding SEM images. h) Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy of a conventional MEA and a multiscale Nafion membrane‐based MEA at 0.6 VRHE. Reproduced with permission.[182] Copyright 2015, Nature Publishing Group.
McBreen measured the electrochemical current responses on Pt‐screen electrodes when the electrodes were supplied with a humidified feed gas, even in cases with no ionomer present; the results have potential implications suggesting the role of water in proton conduction.[178] The fast surface mobility of hydrogen and hydroxyl species adsorbed on the surface of Pt has been attributed to the aforementioned phenomena. Accordingly, surface diffusion of adsorbed hydrogen on the Pt (111) surface in an ultra‐high vacuum has been reported. Moreover, based on underpotential deposited hydrogen (Hupd) peak shifts and areas measured from cyclic voltammograms, studies have attempted to examine hydrogen and hydroxyl adatom diffusivity.

While attempts to illuminate the proton transport mechanism on Pt surfaces without ionomers are actively under way, observations based on Pt black electrodes, which exhibit high mobility of surface adsorbed hydrogen or hydroxyl species, have been helpful. Although such reports[179, 180] have proposed the potential electrochemical activities of species adsorbed on the surfaces of ionomer‐free Pt, the link between the high surface mobility and ORR reactivity remains unclear. Therefore, further research is required to determine the conduction mechanisms of the surface species.

The fuel cell performance of NSTF was recently reported under conditions in which the electrodes were immersed in distilled water: sufficient proton conduction for the resulting electrochemical performance was facilitated by electrostatic interactions between protons and the charged Pt surface.[181] However, this result may be debatable because it may not be possible to inundate an electrode under the typical operating conditions of a fuel cell. Based on electrode polarization curves, Sinha et al. devised a technique for measuring voltage loss arising primarily from proton transport resistance. Comparing the Pt surface with and without ionomers clearly demonstrated that the proton conductivity of the former was orders of magnitude lower than the latter, and the former was more sensitive to humidity. Electrochemical impedance studies with model electrodes partially agreed with these findings.

Although the current understanding of the proton conduction mechanism on an ionomer‐free Pt surface may be insufficient, it is clear that the water content in 3D electrocatalysts seems to be critical for proton conductivity.[4, 44, 101] The apparent complexity of proton conduction may contribute to some of the problems with operational robustness, such as dry operating conditions. This problem has its origin in the proton conductivity of the ionomer‐free Pt surface, which is strongly dependent on the water content and the subsequent relative humidity.

Current distributions based on conductivity were simulated for NSTF cathodes and compared to the results of a similar analysis of conventional Pt/C electrodes. While the use of an NSTF electrode under dry conditions is of marginal practical use considering the lower electrode proton conductivity, the current distribution of the NSTF electrode under sufficiently humid conditions was nearly uniform because of the relatively high proton conductivity and thin electrode (≈0.23 µm). Notably, the higher non‐uniformity of the current compared with that of the Pt/C electrode predicted under similar operating conditions can increase the overpotential in the ORR, resulting in the observed voltage loss.

Owing to these intrinsic limitations, Kongkanand et al. proposed that improvement in hydration capability of the Pt surface may lead to enhanced proton conductivity under dry operating conditions (Figure 8b–f).[101] 3D electrocatalysts decorated with hydrophilic ionomers or silica nanoparticles played an important role in water‐holding and/or water vapor sorption characteristics of electrode samples, which improves proton conductivity and cell performance under extra‐dry conditions.

Moreover, to lower the contact resistance at the electrode–electrolyte interface, some strategies for creating micro‐ or nanoscale patterns in polymer electrolytes have been reported.[182-184] Such approaches can be applied to both 3D Pt thin‐film electrodes and carbon‐supported Pt electrodes. For example, a multiscale‐patterned Nafion membrane for fuel cells was prepared using multiplex lithography, which showed a lower contact resistance at the electrode–electrolyte interface due to the increase in the membrane surface area (Figure 8g,h). This was confirmed by the low Ohmic resistance measured by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy.[182]

The contact resistance is a function of the contact force, pressure distribution, contact area, and the contact surface states. For 3D electrocatalysts, high contact resistance is typically due to a low contact area, or insufficient adhesion, between the electrocatalysts and the electrolytes. Recent studies showed that partially embedding the Pt NSTF in the membrane can decrease the contact resistance.[101] Similarly, the interfacial contact resistance decreased with increasing applied pressure during hot pressing to fabricate the MEA. The working environment of the contact electrode directly affects the measured contact resistance, which, in turn, affects the Ohmic loss. Therefore, optimization of the design of the structure and contact electrode is very important for 3D electrocatalysts.

5.3 Mass Transport Loss Regime
Mass transport losses occur due to limitations related to the transport of mass species to or from the electrode, generally at high current densities. Mass transport loss has long been a limiting factor in the development of 3D electrocatalyst materials for fuel cell applications. In particular, the high water generation rates per unit volume in the electrode make it susceptible to water condensation, which impedes the transport of reactants and products, causing severe performance degradation in fuel cell applications.[4, 65, 101, 103, 125]

The lack of ionomers in the majority of 3D Pt electrocatalysts increases the surface hydrophilicity, which makes flooding or accumulation of water more probable. Consequently, under conditions in which the water saturation pressure is relatively low, 3D electrocatalysts are more susceptible to flooding and can incur significant voltage losses and power limitations. The effects of water flooding in 3D electrocatalysts have been critically discussed, and effective water management procedures under fuel cell operation have been investigated. These effects can be partially mitigated by coating the catalyst surface with thin ionomer films, which reduce the hydrophilicity of the electrode surface and reduce electrode flooding at low temperatures. However, this strategy can negate the advantage of the ionomer‐free electrocatalyst approach.

Recent investigations of the structural effects of 3D Pt electrodes on electrochemical performance have focused specifically on the effectiveness of mass transport, which strongly depends on various physical features of the pores in the electrodes, including the size and shape of pore opening, and the channel width (Figure 9a,b).[185] In particular, determining the optimal pore size to achieve optimal mass transport is crucial because smaller pores impede ion transport, which causes a higher solution resistance, while larger pores decrease the effective surface area of the electrode. As previously reported, it is typical that the mass transport coefficient of porous electrodes decreases with pore size. A study of the effect of pore size on the ORR performance of an aerogel electrocatalysts with pore sizes from 4 to 19 nm showed that the aerogel with 18.5‐nm pores achieved the best ORR performance owing to the facile transport of O2 molecules.[186]

image
Figure 9
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Strategies for overcoming the mass transport loss of 3D Pt electrocatalysts. a) 3D representation of reconstructed SEM tomography (SEMt) results for a conventional Pt/C catalyst layer. b) Corresponding pore size distribution calculated from the SEMt results. Reproduced with permission.[185] Copyright 2013, Elsevier. Cross‐sectional SEM images of c) Pt‐Ni and d) optimized Pt‐Ni aerogel. e) I–V curves at 80 °C, 100% RH in H2/air at 1.5 bar and f) air versus O2 mass transport losses at the cathode (i.e., oxygen gain). (Inset) Tafel plots in H2/O2. Reproduced with permission.[65] Copyright 2017, Wiley‐VCH. g) Conceptual diagram of MEA with inverse‐opal structure Pt electrocatalysts. h) Cross‐sectional SEM image of MEA with inverse‐opal Pt electrode on GDL. Reproduced with permission.[125] Copyright 2013, Nature Publishing Group. Schematic illustrations of i) standard NSTF and j) NSTF with Pt/C interlayer electrodes. Cross‐sectional SEM image of k) standard MEA and l) interlayer‐coated MEA. m) I–V curves taken at 40 °C for a standard NSTF and an NSTF with interlayers coated on the GDL (SD‐GDL‐IL) or MEA (SD‐MEA‐IL). Reproduced with permission.[103] Copyright 2012, The Electrochemical Society. n) TEM image of FePt nanotubes. Reproduced with permission.[45] Copyright 2015, Wiley‐VCH.
In general, the predominant factors determining the optimal pore size are the uniformity and stability of the porous electrodes. The collapse of the nanoporous structures may result in ineffective pores or isolated volumes, which may hinder effective mass transport. Chai et al. noted that synthesizing ordered porous carbon with a pore size <25 nm becomes more challenging due to the smaller size of the silica template particles.[187] They also prepared porous carbon with a 10‐nm pore diameter that had a very large surface area; however, its electrochemical activity was lower than that of a sample with a 25‐nm pore diameter, possibly due to the collapse of the very thin carbon walls.

Another parameter governing mass transport is the tortuosity within the porous electrode. Tortuous nanostructures in porous electrodes can impede transport in the MEA phase. Accordingly, electrode tortuosity is an important factor that is used along with the porosity in assessing the electrolyte conductivity and diffusivity of porous electrodes. According to Bruggeman's model, which correlates the tortuosity factor of porous media with porosity, the tortuosity of a material should decrease as the porosity increases, and vice versa.[188] Tortuous passages in porous electrodes act as bottlenecks that lead to a higher resistance in macroscopic mass transport, which decreases the power density of a fuel cell. In the case of nanoparticle‐based electrodes, non‐optimal packing of nanoparticles can generate many small pores that are not suitable for electrolyte penetration and transport of oxygen molecules or water, which enhances tortuosity and reduces the conductivity and diffusivity.

To date, various approaches have been proposed to mitigate mass transport losses in 3D Pt electrocatalysts. To address poor mass transport in the catalyst layer, Henning et al. reported high‐performance unsupported PtNi aerogels in a fuel cell formed using a soluble filler (K2CO3; Figure 9c–f).[65] Before applying the filler materials, the pores in the PtNi aerogel layer were concentrated in the mesoporous region (less than <50 nm), where the final material had 64% porosity. In contrast, the PtNi aerogel catalyst layer optimized using soluble fillers had a higher average pore size with macropores and 74% porosity (similar to the porosity of Pt/C: ≈78%). The soluble fillers clearly changed the porosity and pore size of the catalyst layer, which can facilitate mass transport. The soluble filler is completely dissolved via acid washing after the spray‐coating step. However, this does not affect the catalytic activity of the PtNi aerogel. Single cell tests showed that the PtNi aerogel catalyst without a soluble filler had poorer performance than that of Pt/C owing to mass transport loss, which was confirmed by the oxygen gain results. In contrast, the PtNi aerogel catalyst optimized using the soluble filler showed enhanced high current performance due to better mass transport. Consequently, the PtNi aerogel catalysts showed a 2.5‐fold increase in a specific activity for ORR compared with Pt/C.

Kim et al. reported a macroporous Pt electrode using an inverse‐opal structure to enhance mass transport and improve fuel cell water management.[125] To fabricate an inverse‐opal Pt electrode, self‐assembly of polystyrene beads with diameters of 500 nm was used to achieve interconnected macropores (Figure 9g,h). The macroporous Pt electrode showed current density at 0.6 V that was 1.85 times higher than that of Pt/C electrode, even though the ECSA of the Pt electrode was significantly lower than that of the Pt/C electrode. The use of the ultrathin inverse‐opal Pt electrode in the MEA gives superior performance, with its highly open, low‐tortuosity, and macroporous structure, enhanced mass transport and improved water management.

Kongkanand et al. formed a hybrid electrode layer by placing an interlayer of few‐a micron‐thick Pt/C catalyst adjacent to NSTF catalyst (Figure 9i–l).[103] The Pt/C interlayer can significantly mitigate poor proton conduction in the catalyst layer and reduce the tendency of water to collect on the cathode. Interlayers coated using the slot‐die technique were applied either on the MEA or GDL and were shown to significantly increase cell performance, especially at high current density, compared to that of unmodified NSTF (Figure 9m).[103] Although this approach requires further optimization, such as determination of the interface resistance between the interlayer and NSTF and implementation of the interlayer coating method, it has the potential to overcome the flooding of 3D Pt electrocatalysts by simply adding an interlayer. Similarly, Lee et al. reported support‐free intermetallic FePt nanotubes produced using electrospinning, which demonstrated enhanced cell performance compared to Pt/C (Figure 9n).[45] The excellent cell performance of FePt nanotubes was attributed to the combination of mesopores in the nanotube walls and macropores formed within the nanotube network. Considering the size of the nanotubes (≈120 nm), macropores are formed on the catalyst layer with diameters in a range of hundreds of nanometers to several micrometers, which facilitates mass transport and water management.

5.4 Performance Metrics of 3D Electrocatalysts in Liquid Half Cells and Fuel Cells
To date, most electrocatalysts, including 3D Pt electrocatalysts for the ORR, have been measured more frequently in liquid half cells than in fuel cells with an MEA structure. This is because liquid half cell configurations are simple to optimize and require small quantities of catalysts, making them more suitable for small‐scale laboratory studies. Therefore, the liquid half cell systems can serve as efficient screening tools for identifying high‐performance 3D electrocatalysts before testing in fuel cell configurations. However, translating the catalytic activity observed in the half cell to the MEA performance in real fuel cells requires the consideration of several other factors. For example, several unconventional nanostructured catalysts that showed good performance in liquid half cells did not perform well in the MEA configuration.

In Figure 10, we summarize the experimental results for various samples to clarify the electrochemical characteristics of many state‐of‐the‐art 3D electrocatalysts. Several systems clearly offer high catalytic performance in liquid half cell conditions due to the large ECSA and high mass activity.[189-194] Notably, the fuel cell test results for most samples have not achieved the superior performance promised by the liquid half cell experiments. Moreover, considering the structural characteristics, the MEA results indicate that a high‐power output is more easily sustained in a fuel cell almost exclusively containing 3D electrocatalysts with improved mass transport properties, rather than those with a high intrinsic catalytic activity or large ECSA. The reason for this observation is still unclear. However, for the 3D electrocatalyst samples with macroscopic pore structure (i.e., reduced mass transport loss), there is an excellent correspondence between their electrochemical performance in liquid half cells and fuel cells; their MEA performance was comparable or slightly higher than that of Pt/C. In contrast, in the case of 3D Pt catalysts with a large surface area (i.e., reduced activation loss), their catalytic performance was mainly investigated in liquid half cell systems rather than in MEAs.

image
Figure 10
Open in figure viewer
PowerPoint
Electrochemical performance of 3D Pt electrocatalysts. a) Normalized ECSA and improvement factor of 3D Pt electrocatalysts; b) mass activity in liquid half cells and c) fuel cell performance in an MEA. The improvement factor was calculated based on mass activity for a liquid half cell, and current density at 0.6 V or maximum power density for the MEA compared to Pt/C. The ECSA of Pt/C used for normalization was the same value as presented in the literature. When no value was reported, the state‐of‐the‐art ECSA value of Pt/C was used for normalization (85.7 m2 g−1).[39] For NSTF, the representative average value for the NSTF catalysts (≈10 m2 gNSTF−1) was used.[95] The reported ECSA values were based on the Hupd value, and the measured values from the liquid half cell were used. If there was no ECSA value measured in a half cell, the ECSA value from the MEA was used. The hyphen means that it has been measured, but it was difficult to calculate the improvement factor versus Pt/C, while the blank means that it was not reported. The 3D Pt electrocatalysts in which mass activity was reported to be lower than Pt/C were excluded. The grey dotted line in the graphs represents the value corresponding to that of the Pt/C, while the black dotted line divides the case measured only in the liquid half cell and that measured in both the liquid half cell and MEA.
These effects are clearly manifested as macroscopic morphological differences in the synthesized 3D Pt architectures. For example, the 3D Pt catalyst with a large surface area is likely to lead to the formation of small pores, such as microscale or mesoscale pores, to maximize the surface area mainly in the catalyst layer. However, these pores may simultaneously degrade their electrochemical performance by the extremely slow mass transport through the small pores. To the best of our knowledge, none of the 3D Pt catalysts with a surface area larger than or similar to that of Pt/C achieved excellent MEA performance. Conversely, the 3D Pt catalysts with improved mass transport resistance tended to have macroscopic internal structures in the catalyst layers, and MEA performances comparable to or slightly better than Pt/C have been reported. However, such architectures are still a disadvantage with respect to adequately increasing the surface area, leading to several unfavorable consequences, such as reducing the catalytic activity. Most 3D Pt catalysts with lower mass transport loss in MEAs tend to have macroporous pore structures and significantly smaller surface areas than Pt/C (e.g., less than half that of Pt/C), which implies that there is an inevitable activation loss.

To successfully improve the performance of 3D Pt electrocatalysts, there is clearly the need for a new structural design to eliminate the trade‐off between a large surface area and the existence of macroscale secondary pores. Excellent electrocatalyst candidates for fuel cells must achieve the delicate balance of transport media, which should be maintained through careful management of the volume fraction and the distribution of the respective conducting network. Therefore, to realize the full potential of these electrocatalyst materials, hierarchical structures should be incorporated into 3D morphologies to provide sufficient electrochemical surface area and good mass transport. This will allow good utilization of the catalyst by ensuring fully accessibility to the reactant.

3D electrocatalysts with in terms of single‐scale structures are not expected to be able to achieve adequate control of the balance between the surface area and mass transport because of the geometric constraints in volume elements. The development of hierarchical architectures of 3D electrocatalysts that combine two or more structures in a multiscale system could provide synergetic effects if the benefits of each structure could be maintained. Recently, such hierarchical architectures have been reported, which demonstrated the ability to merge many seemingly incompatible attributes into a single system, allowing both a high specific surface area and efficient mass transport to be achieved simultaneously. Such multiscale hierarchical structures can be prepared by introducing various templates of different sizes, or by introducing a secondary microstructure with different features into a scaffold. Such structured electrodes are expected to achieve electrochemical performance and durability beyond the limits of traditional electrodes.

Conclusion: In recent decades, the field of 3D electrocatalysts has advanced from manufacturing processes and electrochemistry studies through the processing of innovative materials and interfacial chemistry to continuous increases in fuel cell device performance via innovative architectures.

The immense potential of 3D Pt structures for high‐performance Pt electrocatalyst applications lies in their attractive combination of hierarchical designs with simple fabrication approaches. To date, although some achievements have been made in the application of 3D Pt electrocatalysts, the demand for high‐performance electrocatalysts will continue to increase significantly for large‐scale production and continued cost reductions, which is expected to drive their ongoing development. Current research achievements and technological developments have not yet proved sufficient to enable the use of these materials in mature products for practical application. There are still many opportunities for significantly improved electrode performances with the development of better 3D Pt electrocatalysts.

Many different synthesis processes have been used to produce 3D Pt structures. However, because of the demand for increased step and sophisticated 3D assembly processes, structural control and flexibility, cost‐effectiveness and large‐scale uniformity, a wide range of processes is being investigated to meet these innovation challenges. Ideally, a continuous manufacturing process (e.g., roll‐to‐roll processing) with essential steps from raw materials to the finished product, needs to be clarified.

Mitigating mass transport loss in 3D Pt nanostructured films provides a rich playground for innovation regarding the interfacial chemistry, and provides new avenues and challenges to optimize 3D Pt electrocatalysts with additional advantages in parallel with better catalytic performance. The current focus is on optimizing the liquid water fluxes through 3D Pt architectures for effective proton and oxygen transport (cathodic water production and electroosmotic drag) through a catalyst layer to prevent flooding and the subsequent voltage drop. Modification of the electrocatalyst structure and fuel cell operating conditions to prevent such failures requires further attention. The inclusion of local pattern biases at various scales in the overall 3D structure has shown encouraging results after the mechanical integrity and tortuosity were carefully adjusted for the dynamic water fluxes in the 3D nanostructure.

The chemical management of the atomic structures and electronic properties of 3D Pt nanostructures will also benefit from further study. Surface modification techniques such as self‐assembled monolayers, multinary alloying treatments, and atomic layer deposition could offer great promise but have not been extensively investigated for fuel cell devices to date.

The optimization of the activity‐stability factors for 3D Pt electrocatalyst designs is a complex and multidimensional task. In particular, a wide range of key physical and chemical properties would need to be complementarily considered before their successful implementation in a fuel cell device. Therefore, it is increasingly recognized that the synergetic optimization of these key parameters of electrocatalysts will provide the most important guideline for the structural design of 3D Pt electrocatalysts. In turn, this will help to achieve higher performance and reduce the cost, contributing to the widespread application of hydrogen energy and fuel cell technologies.