Abstract: Atomically dispersed catalysts, with maximized atom utilization of expensive metal components and relatively stable ligand structures, offer high reactivity and selectivity. However, the formation of atomic‐scale metals without aggregation remains a formidable challenge due to thermodynamic stabilization driving forces. Here, a top‐down process is presented that starts from iron nanoparticles, using dual‐metal interbonds (RhFe bonding) as a chemical facilitator to spontaneously convert Fe nanoparticles to single atoms at low temperatures. The presence of RhFe bonding between adjacent Fe and Rh single atoms contributes to the thermodynamic stability, which facilitates the stripping of a single Fe atom from the Fe nanoparticles, leading to the stabilized single atom. The dual single‐atom Rh–Fe catalyst renders excellent electrocatalytic performance for the hydrogen evolution reaction in an acidic electrolyte. This discovery of dual‐metal interbonding as a chemical facilitator paves a novel route for atomic dispersion of chemical metals and the design of efficient catalysts at the atomic scale.

Main: Heterogeneous catalysis is pivotal to the modern chemical industry,[1] with many heterogeneous catalysts comprising transition or noble metals deposited over a solid support phase.[2] Dispersing metals to the ultrasmall forms is an effective strategy to increase their usage efficiency and catalytic reactivity.[3, 4] Recently, atomic dispersion of metal atoms has been realized over the support to form single‐atom catalysts (SACs),[4-8] which attract considerable attention due to their maximized metal usage and improved active site homogeneity.[9, 10] Because of the high surface energy, single metal atoms are generally formed with the existence of particles or clusters as the byproducts, prohibiting stable atomic dispersion.[11-14] As a result, it is of great importance to find efficient technologies for increasing atomic dispersion while maintaining high stability and catalytic activity during applications.

Typically, two strategies are used to disperse SACs stably. One is the bottom‐up method, which conventionally refers to single atoms derived from metal ions. Metal ions are captured in electronic and/or structural defects[15-17] of solid matrix such as metal oxide,[18-22] metal carbides,[23, 24] zeolites/metal–organic frameworks,[25-28] or carbon‐based materials.[29, 30] The anchored metal ions rely on the substrates to prevent the migration, collision, and coalescence of nanoparticles,[31] stabilizing the synthesized single atoms to some extent. Another method is the top‐down strategy, which directly focuses on the conversion of metal nanoparticles to single atoms, minimizing the concerns of nanoparticles as a byproduct in the bottom‐up method. The means to strip a single atom from metal nanoparticles (NPs) are significant. Recently, high temperature was shown to successfully transform noble metal nanoparticles to single atoms.[31] Besides the high‐temperature mean, few approaches have sought to make use of the way, which is required for single atom generation at low temperature due to thermodynamic stability.

Herein, we propose the dual‐metal (RhFe) interbond as a novel chemical facilitator to convert Fe nanoparticles at low temperature to the corresponding single atoms. The existence of Fe hinders the formation of Rh nanoparticles even before pyrolysis. Essentially, the formation of RhFe bonding facilitates the bonded Fe atoms to be stripped from metal nanoparticles, and enhances the stability of the as‐formed single metal atoms. First principles calculations suggest that the process of atomic dispersion is derived from the formation of an intermediate Fe cluster‐Fe–N4, which induce the formation of adjacent carbon vacancy for capturing the mobile Rh. The following formation of RhFe bonding significantly contributes to thermodynamic stability, promoting the dispersion of single metal atoms and enhancing the stability of Fe/Rh single atoms. Owing to the stabilized Rh and Fe single‐atom sites, the catalyst exhibits high HER activity with an overpotential of 36 mV at 10 mA cm−2, a Tafel slope of 26 mV dec−1 and excellent cycling stability, exceeding the activity of commercial Pt/C.

The metal species are embedded on the nitrogen‐doped carbon hollow spheres (NCS) (Figures S1 and S2, Supporting Information). As the precursor of the Fe/Rh‐anchored NCS (FR‐NCS), the Fe‐anchored NCS (F‐NCS) sample possesses the majority of Fe species as the Fe nanoparticles rather than Fe SACs without adding Rh (Figure 1a,b). The signal at g = 3.03 as the fingerprint of the atomic Fe–N4 moieties[32] in the EPR spectrum (Figure S3, Supporting Information) is not observed in F‐NCS. The sextets and the singlet in MÖssbauer spectroscopy corresponding to metallic iron[33] (Figure 1c), account for over 92% of Fe species in the F‐NCS. The metallic Fe (PDF #06‐0696) as the predominant phase in F‐NCS is also confirmed by XRD (Figure 3h). The use of 5 vol% H2 facilitates to form metallic Fe at 200 °C rather than iron oxides,[34, 35] confirming the efficient reduction effect of 5 vol% H2/95 vol% Ar (Figure S4, Supporting Information). In addition, the dominating Rh nanoparticles are formed in the Rh‐anchored NCS (R‐NCS, Figure 1d) without adding Fe, which is confirmed by TEM (Figure 1e) and XPS of Rh 3d spectrum (Figure 1f). In sharp comparison, the co‐existence of Rh and Fe facilitates the metal nanoparticles transforming to atomically dispersed Rh and Fe atoms (Figure 1g,h). The XPS confirms that the Rh exists as the oxidative state Rh3+ rather than the metallic state (upper panel in Figure 1i; Note S1, Supporting Information) when Rh < 3.5 at% (Figure S5, Supporting Information). The doublets in MÖssbauer spectroscopy demonstrates that over 89% of Fe atoms are atomically dispersed in the form of atomic Fe–N4 (the lower panel in Figure 1i). These indicate that an interactive effect between Rh and Fe can induce each metal to stabilize and facilitate the formation of metal single‐atom sites.

This interactive effect between Rh and Fe reflects in the local structure. Followed by a step‐by‐step impregnation process, Rh and Fe with mass loadings of 1.1 at% and 1.8 at% (Table S1, Supporting Information) are introduced into NCS, which is denoted as FR‐NCS. Except for a small amount of aggregates (Figure S2c, Supporting Information), the majority of Fe and Rh are uniformly and atomically dispersed on the NCS shell, highlighted by the blue circles in Figure 2a. It should be noted that “hetero‐pair” atoms are found in Figure 2b. These two atoms in the “hetero‐pair” structure are confirmed to be the Fe and Rh atoms (Figure 2c,d), demonstrating the formation of RhFe interbonds. The selected area for the EELS is shown in Figure S6, Supporting Information, excluding the effect from other atoms in a large area.

To further clarify the local configurations around atomically dispersed Rh and Fe, the extended X‐ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) and X‐ray absorption near‐edge structure (XANES) measurements are performed. The Fe K‐edge XANES spectra of FR‐NCS shows clear pre‐edge peaks at ≈7112 eV, which is the fingerprint for square‐planar Fe–N4 moieties[17] at the relative lower energy position than 7114 eV in Fe foil (Figure 2e). The Fourier transforms of EXAFS spectra (FT‐EXAFS, without phase correction) in Figure 2f reveal peaks at R = 1.6 Å and R = 2.2 Å corresponding to Fe–N/C and FeFe bonds, respectively. This clearly demonstrates the presence of Fe–N4 moieties and the significant reduction in Fe nanoparticles in FR‐NCS compared to F‐NCS. The peak at R = 2.5 Å of FR‐NCS shows the shift compared to that of Fe foil. It shows the change of near‐neighbor metal atom shell around the Fe atom, demonstrating the formation of RhFe bonding.[36] The peak at R = 1.5 Å in the Fourier transforms of EXAFS spectra is due to the contribution from Rh–N/C scattering (Figure 2g). Further quantitative EXAFS curve fitting analysis (Table S2, Supporting Information) reveals that the coordination numbers for the Fe edge of the FR‐NCS sample are 2.0 ± 0.5 for Fe–Fe (reduced from 7.1 ± 1.6 in F‐NCS) at a distance of 2.59 ± 0.02 Å, and 1.4 ± 0.7 for RhFe at a distance of 2.59 ± 0.04 Å (data processing and fitting see Figure S7, Supporting Information). Considering the Fe–N4 moieties in the carbon substrate, Rh single atom replaces one C adjacent to N in Fe–N4 and binds with neighboring Fe atom (Figure 2h; Figure S8, and Note S2, Supporting Information). The deformation charge density confirms the electron accumulation on the RhFe bond as shown in the inset of Figure 2h. This structure is also shown to be thermodynamically stable and is formed with a negative reaction free energy (Note S3 and Figure S9, Supporting Information). Based on the EXAFS fitting results, there still would be other structures besides RhFe pair, like metal oligomers, metal single atoms, or bimetallic clusters. As shown in Figure S10, Supporting Information, the metal atoms in RhFe pair sites account for over 70% of total atomically dispersed metal atoms, demonstrating the RhFe pair as the predominant structure.

Based on the formula of ΔEatom = (Eatom–NCS − NatomEatom)/Natom, anchor energies (per atom) of dispersed atoms in the NCS structure are calculated to predict the most likely atom‐dispersion structure. The Fe‐, Rh‐, Fe/Rh‐, dimer Fe–Fe‐, and dimer Rh–Rh‐anchored NCS (denoted as F‐NCS, R‐NCS, FR‐NCS, Fe/Fe, Rh/Rh for simplicity) are geometrically optimized to calculate anchor energies for comparing their thermodynamic stabilities. As shown in Figure 2i, dual RhFe single atoms are preferentially anchored in the NCS structure with the lowest value of the anchor energy, which may be attributed to stronger RhFe chemical bonds. Both the experimental and theoretical results indicate that the RhFe interbond thermodynamically prefers to form, which facilitates the subsequent dispersion of aggregated metal nanoparticles.

Noble metals (e.g., Pd, Rh, Ir) have been reported to be stabilized by other metal species with higher valence (e.g., La, and Re in oxides, and La in halides) to form hetero‐pairs.[37-39] Here, first‐principles calculations based on density functional theory (DFT) combined with experimental results are conducted to reveal the origin of the interactive facilitation effect between Fe and Rh. The experimental studies show that the formation of the RhFe chemical bond significantly enhances single atom dispersion with no requirement for high‐temperature atomization. The chemical bond equivalently provides additional energy for dissociating metal clusters into single atoms. Therefore, our calculations are focused on the local structure around the RhFe chemical bond, and the thermodynamic stability contribution due to the RhFe chemical bond. Based on previous theoretical calculations, stable Fe10 and Rh7 clusters with closed‐shell electronic structure (magic number) are chosen in our present work. In nature, the cluster size fully depends on the chemical reaction temperature and intrinsic cohesive energy of the bulk. Therefore, although cluster size change may have an impact on chemical reaction thermodynamics, the specific cluster size calculations are still rational to describe the fundamental physical mechanism of atomization.

The local structure around RhFe chemical bond is determined by calculating the lowest‐energy carbon‐vacancy site which may be filled by mobile Rh atoms. At a low‐temperature condition, the Fe nanoparticle, taking Fe10 as an example, maybe trapped in the N4 defect position by FeN4 bond‐forming. The newly formed Fe–N4 facilitates the neighboring carbon activation due to bonding electron delocalization from C‐π to Fe‐d orbitals. As shown in Figure 3a,b, the formation energy associated with four different carbon vacancies (C1, C2, C3, C4) are examined. With the activation caused by Fe–N4, the vacancy formation energies (VFE) of these adjacent carbon sites decrease when compared to that of the perfect hexagonal lattice of a carbon plane (7.79 eV). Particularly, the C2 site with the closest distance to the Fe–N4 moiety is preferred to be removed from the lattice with a VFE value of 1.69 eV (Figure 3c). These calculations further show that the local structure of C3 RhFe N4 is very likely to be formed with four‐ligand Rh and five‐ligand Fe. The carbon vacancies exist in F‐NCS, which are also observed in EPR spectrum. The line in the EPR at around 3512 G arises from the unpaired electrons on the carbon atoms of the aromatic rings. Compared with pure NCS, F‐NCS possesses a weaker ESR signal (Figure 3d), suggesting the decrease of carbon content in F‐NCS, which corresponds to the formation of carbon vacancy.[40]

The chemical‐bond‐enhanced dissociation mechanism from nanoparticle into a single atom is further investigated. On the one hand, starting from Fe nanoparticles sitting on N4 structures with carbon‐vacancies, the Rh nanoparticles are prohibited to be formed with the Fe–N4 (Figure 3e,f). When choosing two control substrates without Fe–N4 (Figures S11–S14, Supporting Information) to support Rh species (substrate 1: mixed commercial iron and NCS; substrate 2: carbon without nitrogen), the presence of Rh nanoparticles in these two substrates is confirmed (Figure S14, Supporting Information), leading to the conclusion that the pivotal effect of Fe–N4 on facilitating the atomic dispersion of Rh. XPS spectrum indicate that metalcarbon bond in FR‐NCS is not observed in F‐NCS (Figure S15, Supporting Information), confirming the Fe cluster not sitting on carbon and Rh bonded with unsaturated carbon as the metalcarbon bonding. The calculated Gibbs free energy has an apparent decrease (Figure 3g), exhibiting the Fe effect in prohibiting the formation of Rh nanoparticle. From XRD patterns, Rh nanoparticle is not formed before and after pyrolysis with the existence of Fe species, while the apparent metallic Rh nanoparticles existed without the assistance of Fe species. Combined with the control samples without Fe–N4 structure (Figures S11–S14, Supporting Information), the Fe–N4 efficiently hinders the formation of Rh even before pyrolysis. On the other hand, with single Rh incorporated into the lattice, the formation of RhFeN4 bonding weakens the attached Fe10, which induces the shrinkage of Fe10 to Fe9 (Figure 3i,j). During the dispersion process of Fe nanoparticles, the free energy of the whole system reduces by 0.42 eV after Fe atomic dispersion (Figure 3k), showing that the RhFe bond facilitates the atomic dispersion of Fe. During the heat‐treatment, the shift of the peak assigned to metallic Fe indicates the alloying phenomenon, demonstrating the transformation from FeFe bond to RhFe bond (Figure S16, Supporting Information). In addition, the amount of Fe–N4 increases from 7.2% in F‐NCS to 58.3% when heat‐treated for 1 h (FR‐NCS‐1 h) and to 89.3% with 2 h heat‐treatment (Figure 3l, Figure 1c, and down panel in Figure 1i), supporting the stripping process of Fe cluster. The degradation process of Fe nanoparticles is directly supported by the in situ imaging, showing that the Fe nanoparticles gradually transform and degrade with the increased pyrolysis temperature and prolonged pyrolysis time (Figure S17, Supporting Information).

To evaluate the HER electrocatalytic performance of NCS with the RhFe chemical bonds induced atomically dispersed Rh and Fe, rotating disk electrode (RDE) measurements are carried out in comparison to glass carbon electrode (GCE), F‐NCS, R‐NCS, Rh/Fe co‐loaded hollow carbon spheres without nitrogen (FR‐CS), and NCS. Figure 4a shows linear‐sweep voltammograms in the cathodic direction corrected for ohmic potential drop (iR) loss, normalized to the projected geometric area of the electrode. The NCS without metal exhibits a poor HER activity, suggesting the importance of simultaneous presence of both Rh and Fe single atoms. Notably, FR‐NCS shows outstanding catalytic activity with a positive shift in overpotential at a current density of 10 mA cm−2 (η10) of 22 mV than that of the commercial Pt/C catalysts. In addition, it is observed that the HER activity of the FR‐NCS deteriorates with the removal of either atomically dispersed metal species (Fe or Rh). These results demonstrate the synergistic effect that exists between bonded Rh and Fe atoms to significantly boost the activity of NCS. When the activity is normalized to the catalyst mass loading (Figure 4b), the mass activity for the FR‐NCS catalysts at an overpotential of 0.05 V is 33.7 mA mg−1. The mass activity of FR‐NCS is 2.2 times of Pt/C, 6.3 times of R‐NCS, and 45.5 times of F‐NCS.

As for the reaction paths, the FR‐NCS sample shows a Tafel slope of 26 mV dec−1, indicating a Volmer–Tafel mechanism (Figure 4c) with hydrogen desorption as the determining step as illustrated in Note S4, Supporting Information. In contrast, the catalysts without RhFe synergy (Fe‐NCS, R‐NCS and NCS) exhibit Tafel slopes over 70 mV dec−1 and prefer hydrogen adsorption determined reaction path,[41] reflecting an insufficient bonding strength between the active site and hydrogen. As such, FR‐NCS possesses neighboring atomic Rh and Fe atoms with RhFe bonding, which strongly enhances the hydrogen adsorption process. In addition, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy shows a decreased charge‐transfer resistance (Rct) for FR‐NCS (17 Ω) relative to R‐NCS (54 Ω), F‐NCS (312 Ω), and FR‐CS (184 Ω), in which charge transfer between active sites and proton in electrolyte is facilitated by the existence of neighboring and interacted RhFe atoms (Figure 4d). The FR‐NCS catalyst exhibits the outstanding HER activity and demonstrates the preponderance of bimetallic atomic dispersed Fe and Rh atoms toward a significantly increased activity of immobilized substrate when compared to most of the other single metal atom‐based HER catalysts,[13, 41-48] and commercial Pt/C (Figure 4e).

We also investigate the stability of the FR‐NCS catalyst. XPS and MÖssbauer characterizations are conducted for used and fresh FR‐NCS (“used” refers to the catalyst after one round of reaction). The divergence in MÖssbauer spectroscopy between the used and fresh FR‐NCS is negligible when normalized to the amount of Fe–N4. This suggests that the atomically dispersed Fe in FR‐NCS remains nearly unchanged after hydrogen evolution (Figure S18, Supporting Information). Moreover, the XPS Rh 3d spectra of the used FR‐NCS shows no typical peaks for Rh0, demonstrating the chemical stability of Rh (Figure S19, Supporting Information). After 1000 cycles, only 5 mV negative shift in η10 is observed compared to the original η10 value, exhibiting an outstanding long‐term operational stability (Figure 4f).

To understand the origin of the high catalytic activity of FR‐NCS, DFT calculations have been performed to reveal a cooperative catalytic mechanism of dual single‐atoms (FR‐NCS). The possible active sites in the basic catalytic unit FR‐NCS are illustrated in Figure 4g. Once the hydrated proton is incorporated into water clusters adsorbed in FR‐NCS (Figure 4h), one hydrogen atom is spontaneously transferred to the Rh atom site, forming a Rh–H complex structure (Figure 4h). This indicates that Rh‐mediated hydrogen transfer exhibits an energy drop. As discussed in previous work, the optimal value of ΔGH* is equal to 0 eV,[49] where adsorbed atomic hydrogen is in a thermoneutral state and can perform efficient proton/electron‐transfer and hydrogen release. In Figure 4i, atomically dispersed Rh as the active site shows a hydrogen adsorption free energy (ΔGH*) of −0.084 eV, much closer to 0 eV compared to Fe and N sites (optimized structures, see Figure S20, Supporting Information), confirming the atomically dispersed Rh contributing as the active site to largely increase the catalytic activity. In fact, the amount of free electronic states near the Fermi level (−1 to 0 eV highlighted by orange rectangular areas) determines the HER catalytic activity in the lower panels in Figure 4j,k. It is found that the Rh–Fe–N moiety has one order of magnitude larger of density states below Fermi level composed predominantly of the Rh 4d orbitals compared to that of neighboring atoms. Therefore, the binding of hydrogen on the Rh site in FR‐NCS is more favorable than on other atoms. The Rh center is favorable for the adsorption of hydrogen and donates electrons to reduce the proton. The atomically dispersed Fe cannot play the active site in FR‐NCS configuration, performing a weak interaction with H (ΔGH of 0.333 eV) and difficulty in H transferring from the electrolyte to atomically dispersed Fe (Figure S21, Supporting Information). The electronic states of the Fe‐3d orbital around the Fermi level (−0.5 to −1 eV) mainly hybridize with the Rh‐4d and N‐2p orbitals, resulting in less extra free electrons that can transfer to the hydrogen atom for proton reduction. The electronic states of the Rh 4d orbitals between −1 and 0 eV are dragged to the deep energy level due to hybridization with the 1s orbital of H atoms, leading to electron pairing and hydride formation (lower panels in Figure 4j,k and Figure S22, Supporting Information). Specifically, the absence of Fe atom in R‐NCS decreases the catalytic activity, exhibiting a ΔGH of −0.216 eV and 0.15 e− charge transfer from Rh to H atom. By comparison, the atomically dispersed Fe atom can tune the charge distribution of FR‐NCS and release extra electrons of Rh atom through RhFe bond formation (Figure S23, Supporting Information). The electron redistribution effect of Fe on Rh is also observed in the charge distributions of the upper panels of Figure 4j,k. After H adsorption, the electrons aggregate around atomically dispersed Fe atom (red areas) and Rh shares the electrons with H (dark cyan areas). By theoretical calculations, such excellent activity is attributed mainly to a synergistic effect in FR‐NCS, whereby the Fe atom facilitates the charge distribution while the active Rh site promotes favorable hydrogen adsorption and evolution.

In summary, a novel mechanism is developed to convert metal nanoparticles to atomically dispersed metal atoms using dual‐metal interbond (RhFe bonding) as a chemical facilitator. The RhFe bonding between adjacent Fe and Rh single atoms snips the bonded metal atom from its original nanoparticles via enhanced thermodynamic stability. First‐principles calculations and experimental results reveal that the carbon vacancy induced by the neighbored Fe cluster‐FeN4 structure captures mobile Rh to form a Rh–Fe interbond. The as‐formed RhFe bonding reversely detaches the Fe atom in FeN4 from the Fe cluster‐FeN4 structure, stabilizing atomically dispersed atoms. The obtained dual single atom Rh–Fe catalyst exhibits superb electrocatalytic activity for the hydrogen evolution reaction, performing at an ultralow overpotential of 36 mV at 10 mA cm−2 and Tafel slope of 26 mV dec−1, which is superior to 20 wt% Pt/C and other reported single‐atom electrocatalysts. The Rh site is identified as the active site with Fe tuning the electron distribution via the RhFe interbond to offer the optimized ΔGH. This discovery establishes a convenient route to obtain SACs in a wider range, which may even be applied to other metals spontaneously to be atomically dispersed with the assistance from another kind of metal, providing valuable insight for preparing high‐performance thermally stable SACs.

Experimental Section: Preparation of NCS
The detailed synthetic processes can be found in the previous research.[50] Briefly, 0.74 g 2,4‐dihydroxybenzoic acid and 0.28 g hexamethylentetramine were dissolved in deionized water (DI water) to form solution I. An aqueous solution (80 mL) containing 0.3 g sodium oleate and 0.18 g poly(propylene glycol)‐block‐poly(ethylene glycol)‐block‐poly(propylene glycol) was added into solution I under slow stirring for 10 min and then transferred to a Teflon‐lined stainless‐steel autoclave heated at 160 °C for 8 h. After cooling to room temperature, the products were centrifuged, washed three times with DI water, and dried in vacuum at 50 °C overnight. The as‐prepared powders were annealed at 650 °C for 3 h with a ramping rate of 2 °C min−1 under NH3 atmosphere, followed by further carbonization in N2 at 900 °C for 2 h.

Preparation of FR‐NCS, FR‐NCS‐1 h, FR‐NCS‐0 h, F‐NCS, and R‐NCS
The as‐prepared NCS‐900 (0.1 g) was dissolved in 10 mL ethanol containing 5.8 mg FeCl3. This solution was stirred for 2 h and dried at 80 °C overnight. The obtained sample was pyrolyzed at 200 °C for 3 h with a ramping rate of 4 °C min−1 under 95 vol% Ar/5 vol% H2 atmosphere. The sample was denoted as F‐NCS. Then, the obtained F‐NCS (0.1 g) was dispersed in 10 mL DI water containing varying amounts of RhCl3 (0.5, 2.0, 5.0, 10.0 mg), respectively. The obtained solutions were stirred until the liquid was totally evaporated, and underwent the drying process under vacuum overnight, followed by heat treatment at 200 °C for different hours under 95 vol% Ar/5 vol% H2. The best‐performance sample with 5.0 mg RhCl3 is denoted as FR‐NCS (Figure S24, Supporting Information). The samples were heated for 0 h (FR‐NCS‐0 h) and 1 h (FR‐NCS‐1 h) as the control samples to verify the atomization process, while the sample with heat treatment for 2 h was denoted as the FR‐NCS. As for the comparison, R‐NCS followed the synthetic processes of FR‐NCS without the step to introduce Fe.

Preparation of FR‐CS
In order to unveil the effect of N, carbon hollow spheres without N‐doping were prepared following most of the processes of NCS without pyrolysis in NH3. The left procedures to get FR‐CS were the same as those of FR‐NCS.

Structural Characterization
The morphology of the catalysts was observed using a JEOL JEM 2100F transmission electron microscope (TEM) operating at an accelerating voltage of 200 kV. This instrument was also equipped with an Oxford Instruments energy‐dispersive X‐ray spectrometer (EDS) for compositional analysis. STEM images were acquired by using JEOL 2100F based microscope equipped with delta correctors and cold field‐emission gun. The microscope was operating at 60 kV. The probe current was about 25–30 pA. The convergence semi‐angle α was 35 mrad and the inner acquisition semi‐angle β was 62 mrad. EELS spectrum was taken by using Gatan low‐voltage image filter Quantum camera. X‐ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measurements were performed on an ESCALAB 250 X‐ray photoelectron spectrometer using an Al Ka (hν = 1486.6 eV) radiation source. 57Fe MÖβbauer spectroscopy was performed at room temperature in transmission mode to characterize the various iron species in the catalysts. The spectra were calibrated with respect to α‐Fe‐Standard. For the identification of iron sites, a Lorentzian site analysis with the program Recoil was made. Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) was recorded on Bruker EMX spectrometer using an Elexsys probe head. Calculation of the spin number was based on a reference powder of Cu(II)TPP with 1 spin per molecule. X‐ray absorption fine‐structure spectroscopy (XAFS) was performed at the Materials Research Collaborative Access Team (MRCAT), Sector 10‐BM line at the Advanced Photon Source at Argonne National Laboratory.[51] The nanoparticle samples were mixed with boron nitride and PVDF binder and pressed into a 5 mm pellet, then measured in transmission from 200 eV below to 1000 eV above the K absorption edges of Fe (7.11 keV) or Rh (2.3 keV). Metal foils of either Fe or Rh were used to calibrate E0 and served as reference material for the subsequent fitting of the Fourier Transform EXAFS spectra. All data processing and linear combination fitting were performed using the Athena and Artemis programs from the IFEFFIT suite (Note S2 and Figure S7, Supporting Information).[52, 53] The in situ imaging was performed on a Titan Themis Cubed G2 60‐300 microscope using a DENS solutions Climate S3 and Gas flow and Heating System, which comprised a heated sample holder and gas delivery manifold. The dispersed sample was cast on a MEMS in situ heating chip.

Electrochemical Measurements
Electrochemical measurements were carried out in 0.5 m H2SO4 as electrolyte using a typical three‐electrode cell consisting of a working electrode, a graphite carbon counter electrode and a saturated calomel reference electrode (SCE). The electrochemical cell was connected to an electrochemical workstation (CHI760) coupled with a rotating disk electrode (RDE) system (AFMSRCE3529, Pine Research Instrumentation, USA). A glassy carbon electrode (GCE) covered with catalyst samples was used as the working electrode. The potential, measured against an SCE electrode, was converted to the potential versus the reversible hydrogen electrode (RHE) according to ERHE = ESCE + EoSCE (0.2412) + 0.059 × pH. Linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) was conducted in 0.5 m H2SO4 with a scan rate of 2 mV s−1 under 1500 rpm. The cyclic voltammograms (CVs) were obtained with a scan rate of 100 mV s−1 in the potential range of 0.2–0.4 V versus RHE. The current density versus potential data plots were corrected for 90% ohmic compensation throughout the system. The electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) measurements were carried out in the same configuration at a potential of 150 mV from 100 KHz to 0.1 Hz. The polarization data for samples in 0.5 m H2SO4 initially and after 1000 CV sweeps between −0.2 and +0.2 V versus RHE with a scan rate of 50 mV s−1 were used to evaluate the stability performance. The mass activity (mA mg−1) values of samples were calculated from the electrocatalyst loading m (0.5 mg cm−2) and the measured current density j (mA cm−2) at overpotential of 50 mV. The area of electrode was 0.19625 cm−2.

Computational Methods
The spin‐polarized density functional theory (DFT) calculations were performed using the Vienna Ab initio Simulation Package (VASP),[54] with the generalized gradient approximation of Perdew–Burke–Ernzerhof to describe electron exchange and correlation. The plane‐wave basis cut off was 500 eV. The projector‐augmented plane wave (PAW) was used to describe the electron‐ion interactions.[55] A set of (3 × 3 × 1) k‐points were carried out for geometric optimization, and the convergence threshold was set as 10−4 eV in energy and 0.05 eV Å−1 in force, respectively. The models of Fe10‐NCS and Fe10‐ Rh‐NCS with a supercell 9 × 3 × 1 were first chosen for simulating the diffusion of Fe10 cluster. The Hubbard‐type U correction for the strong‐correlation d‐electrons of transition metals are taken into account.[56] For the systems, the free energy of the adsorbed state was calculated as:
Δ𝐺𝐻∗=Δ𝐸H∗+Δ𝐸ZPE−𝑇Δ𝑆
 (1)
where ΔEH* is the hydrogen chemisorption energy, and ΔEZPE is the difference corresponding to the zero‐point energy between the adsorbed state and the gas phase. As the vibration entropy of H* in the adsorbed state was small, the entropy of adsorption of 1/2 H2 was ΔSH ≈ −1/2  𝑆0H2 , where  𝑆0H2  is the entropy of H2 in the gas phase at the standard conditions.