Abstract: Fully effective vaccines for complex infections must elicit a diverse repertoire of antibodies (humoral immunity) and CD8+ T-cell responses (cellular immunity). Here, we present a synthetic glyco-adjuvant named p(Man–TLR7), which, when conjugated to antigens, elicits robust humoral and cellular immunity. p(Man–TLR7) is a random copolymer composed of monomers that either target dendritic cells (DCs) via mannose-binding receptors or activate DCs via Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7). Protein antigens are conjugated to p(Man–TLR7) via a self-immolative linkage that releases chemically unmodified antigen after endocytosis, thus amplifying antigen presentation to T cells. Studies with ovalbumin (OVA)–p(Man–TLR7) conjugates demonstrate that OVA–p(Man–TLR7) generates greater humoral and cellular immunity than OVA conjugated to polymers lacking either mannose targeting or TLR7 ligand. We show significant enhancement of Plasmodium falciparum-derived circumsporozoite protein (CSP)-specific T-cell responses, expansion in the breadth of the αCSP IgG response and increased inhibition of sporozoite invasion into hepatocytes with CSP–p(Man–TLR7) when compared with CSP formulated with MPLA/QS-21-loaded liposomes—the adjuvant used in the most clinically advanced malaria vaccine. We conclude that our antigen–p(Man–TLR7) platform offers a strategy to enhance the immunogenicity of protein subunit vaccines.

Main: Stable protection against chronic infections such as malaria, HIV, tuberculosis and hepatitis C requires both humoral immunity, for protection against blood-borne pathogens, and cellular immunity, for the elimination of infected cells1. While clinical-stage subunit vaccines elicit neutralizing antibodies, they generate little or no CD8+ T-cell response2. This lack of a cellular immune response is the result of the poor presentation of soluble antigens by dendritic cells (DCs) to CD8+ T cells3 (a process termed ‘cross-presentation’) and the inability of FDA-approved adjuvants to elicit sufficient DC activation to evoke the DC-derived costimulatory signals required to initiate effector CD8+ T-cell responses4.

To improve the CD8+ T-cell response to subunit vaccines, antigens have been modified with antibodies5 and glycosylations6,7,8 that target DCs via mannose-binding C-type lectins that traffic endocytosed antigens into intracellular pathways that promote cross-presentation5,9,10,11 and presentation to CD4+ T cells12, which are necessary for high-quality cellular13 and humoral immunity14. As opposed to antibody-targeting strategies, synthetic glycosylations produced via chemical synthesis are particularly attractive, given that synthetic glycosylations are fully characterizable, more stable15, and avoid an immune response to a protein-based targeting moiety16. However, covalently linked glycosylations can block the intracellular processing of antigens into peptides17 and the loading of peptides onto major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules for presentation to T cells18. Moreover, the dependence of mannose-mediated targeting strategies on systemically toxic pathogen-derived adjuvants19,20 to generate cellular immune responses8,21,22 is a significant barrier to clinical translation.

Here, we describe a vaccine platform that leverages the advantages of targeting mannose-binding C-type lectins to efficiently codeliver antigens and a potent polymeric adjuvant to DCs. Antigen–p(Man–TLR7) conjugates (1) (Fig. 1a) are composed of antigens conjugated via a self-immolative linker to water-soluble random copolymers synthesized from monomers that are designed to target mannose-binding receptors or agonize Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7). Antigen–p(Man–TLR7) conjugates are actively taken up via mannose-binding C-type lectins and, once internalized, release chemically unmodified antigen (Fig. 1b), for unencumbered antigen processing and presentation, as well as activating endosomal TLR7, a pathogen pattern recognition receptor that induces DC activation23. Thus, antigen-p(Man–TLR7) conjugates amplify antigen presentation by DCs to T cells and provoke the necessary DC-derived costimulatory signals needed to generate strong CD8+ and CD4+ T-cell responses. Additionally, antigen–p(Man–TLR7) elicits an expansive neutralizing antibody repertoire and expands antigen-specific memory B cells. Finally, by localizing immune stimulation to the lymphatic organs, antigen–p(Man–TLR7) avoids an acute systemic inflammatory response.

Fig. 1: p(Man–TLR7) is a potent activator of DCs and OVA–p(Man–TLR7) is internalized via mannose-binding receptors.
figure1
a, Antigen–p(Man–TLR7) (1) is composed of antigens conjugated, via a self-immolative linker, to a random copolymer synthesized from monomers that either activate TLR7 (red box) or target mannose-binding C-type lectins (green box). b, Antigens are released from antigen–p(Man–TLR7) conjugates upon disulfide reduction. c, Antigen–p(Man–TLR7) conjugates are synthesized from p(Man–TLR7) (2) (x, 0.15; y, 0.32) and self-immolative linker-modified antigens (3) via a metal-free click reaction at room temperature (r.t.). d,e, Mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) in arbitrary units (a.u.) of the costimulatory molecules CD86 (d) and CD80 (e) of BMDCs treated for 6 h with various concentrations of p(Man–TLR7), mTLR7, or mTLR7 and the mannose monomer used to synthesize 1 (1:2.1 ratio). The dotted line represents the MFI-a.u. of medium-treated cells. f, Concentration of IL-12p70 in the supernatant of BMDCs after 12 h of exposure to various concentrations of TLR7 ligand as either p(Man–TLR7), mTLR7, or mTLR7 and mannose monomer. g,h, MFI of OVA649 (g) or CD80 and CD86 (h) of CD11c+ BMDCs pretreated with various concentrations of mannose/mannan and then treated with 10 μM mTLR7 formulated as fluorescently labelled OVA649–p(Man–TLR7). The dotted line in g represents the MFI of cells treated with OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) and kept at 4 °C. i, MFI of CD11c+ BMDCs pretreated with αCD209, αCD206 or isotype control antibody and then treated with OVA649–p(Man–TLR7). j, Western blot of BMDCs treated with OVA–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA for the indicated times. All data presented as mean ± s.e.m. In d–h, statistical differences were determined by one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) using Bonferroni’s post hoc test (n = 4 independent biological samples per group). In d–f, P values represent statistical differences between p(Man–TLR7)-treated cells and cells treated with either mTLR7 or mTLR7 + mannose monomer at the given concentration. In g,h, statistical differences are with respect to cells treated with 103 μg ml−1 mannose. In i, red and green P values represent the statistical difference with respect to isotope control antibody-pretreated cells and cells pretreated with either αCD209 or αCD206, respectively (n = 4 independent biological samples per group, two-tailed t-test). For d–j, experiments were repeated at least twice with similar results.

Full size image
Given the importance of an antigen’s tertiary structure in the generation of pathogen-neutralizing antibodies24, we devised a copper-free click-based strategy to conjugate p(Man–TLR7) to antigens (Fig. 1c) that avoids exposing the antigen to the denaturing solvents, surfactants and biomaterials commonly used to formulate particulate25 and liposomal26 vaccine platforms. First, we synthesized p(Man–TLR7) (2) via a reversible addition–fragmentation chain transfer (RAFT) polymerization using an azide-modified RAFT agent, a biologically inert comonomer (N-(2-hydroxypropyl)methacrylamide, HPMA) and two functional monomers: one synthesized from D-mannose, and the other from a potent TLR7 ligand (mTLR7) (Supplementary Figs. 1, 2). The p(Man–TLR7) used here had a number average molecular weight of ~18 kDa, as determined by size exclusion chromatography, and was composed of a 1:2.1:3.5 molar ratio of mTLR7:mannose monomer:HPMA, as measured by mTLR7-specific UV absorbance and 1H NMR. To endow antigens with a “clickable” ligand, antigens were first modified with an amine-reactive heterobifunctional bicyclononyne-decorated linker. Our heterobifunctional linker forms a disulfide-reduction-sensitive self-immolative linkage that is known to be relatively stable in serum, but cleaves on endocytosis27,28. A metal-free cycloaddition reaction between the ring-strained bicyclononyne moiety of 3 and the terminal azide of 2 affords antigen–p(Man–TLR7) 1 at a greater than 95% yield (Fig. 1c, Supplementary Fig. 3). Interestingly, superoxide dismutase (SOD)–p(Man–TLR7) and native SOD have similar enzymatic activities, demonstrating the structure-preserving nature of our synthetic strategy (Supplementary Fig. 3). Using our conjugation strategy, we formulated p(Man–TLR7) conjugates of the model antigen ovalbumin (OVA) and the Plasmodium falciparum antigen circumsporozoite protein (CSP) for in vitro and in vivo studies.

The structure of our TLR7-activating monomer (mTLR7) was inspired by FDA-approved TLR7-activating imidazoquinolines23. To demonstrate that incorporating mTLR7 into p(Man–TLR7) increases the efficacy of mTLR7, we treated bone marrow-derived DCs (BMDCs) with p(Man–TLR7), mTLR7, or mTLR7 and our mannose monomer, and then measured the expression of costimulatory surface proteins and secreted cytokines. After 6 h, BMDCs treated with p(Man–TLR7) at a TLR7-ligand concentration of 100 nM and above expressed significantly more CD86 and CD80 (Fig. 1d,e) as compared with BMDCs treated with mTLR7 or mTLR7 + mannose monomer. Analysis of the T-cell-activating cytokine29 concentrations in the cell supernatant showed that p(Man–TLR7) elicited markedly more IL-12p70 (Fig. 1f), TNFα, and IL-6 (Supplementary Fig. 4) than mTLR7 or mTLR7 + mannose monomer. Additionally, p(Man–TLR7) increased BMDC activation compared with other commercially available imidazoquinoline adjuvants (Supplementary Fig. 4). Importantly, p(Man–TLR7) also augmented the expression of costimulatory molecules by human monocyte-derived DCs (Supplementary Fig. 5). Thus, incorporation of mTLR7 into our glycopolymer boosts the monocyte-derived DC-activating prowess of mTLR7 in murine and human cells.

To determine if p(Man–TLR7) is taken up via mannose-binding C-type lectins, we pretreated BMDCs with various concentrations of mannose cocktail and dye-labelled OVA (OVA649) conjugated to p(Man–TLR7) (OVA649–p(Man–TLR7)), then measured the amount of cell-associated OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) and the expression of CD80 and CD86 via flow cytometry. As anticipated, increasing the mannose concentration decreased the OVA649–p(Man–TLR7)-associated fluorescent signal of BMDCs (Fig. 1g) as well as BMDC expression of CD80 and CD86 (Fig. 1h). Importantly, treating BMDCs with the mannose cocktail or mannose polymers lacking mTLR7 (p(Man)) did not elevate CD80 or CD86 (Supplementary Figs. 6–8). To assess which receptors were responsible for internalizing p(Man–TLR7), BMDCs were pretreated with antibodies against the DC-expressed30 mannose-internalizing C-type lectins CD206 and CD209 and then were subsequently treated with OVA649–p(Man–TLR7). Increasing the concentration of αCD206 or αCD209, but not an isotype antibody, decreased the OVA649–p(Man–TLR7)-associated fluorescent signal of BMCDs (Fig. 1i). Additionally, p(Man–TLR7) did not activate TLR7-expressing cells that lack CD206 and CD209 (Supplementary Fig. 1). Given that p(Man–TLR7) must be internalized to activate TLR77, our results confirm that p(Man–TLR7) targets, and is internalized by, mannose-binding C-type lectins of BMDCs including CD206 and CD209.

We hypothesized that tethering antigens to p(Man–TLR7) via a disulfide-reduction-sensitive self-immolative linker would result in efficient intracellular antigen release, thus facilitating antigen processing and presentation. To verify antigen release after endocytosis, we treated BMDCs with OVA–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA. At various intervals, the cells were detergent extracted and OVA release was examined via Western blotting. OVA is released from OVA–p(Man–TLR7) in as little as 90 min, with almost complete release in 180 min (Fig. 1j). To demonstrate the utility of releasing unmodified antigen, we measured CD8+ and CD4+ T-cell proliferation after coculture with BMDCs pulsed with either OVA–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA conjugated to p(Man–TLR7) via Traut’s reagent (Fig. 2a, Supplementary Fig. 9), a commonly used non-self-immolative cross-linker that releases chemically tagged OVA upon disulfide reduction (Supplementary Fig. 10). BMDCs pulsed with OVA conjugates were cocultured with 5(6)-carboxyfluorescein N-hydroxysuccinimidyl ester (CFSE)-labelled OVA-specific CD8+ T cells (OTI cells) or CFSE-labelled OVA-specific CD4+ T cells (OTII cells). After 72 h, CFSE dilution was measured as an indication of T-cell proliferation. Both OTI and OTII T cells cultured with BMDCs treated with OVA–p(Man–TLR7) proliferated significantly more than T cells cultured with OVA–Traut–p(Man–TLR7)-treated BMDCs (Fig. 2b). These results demonstrate that the self-immolative linkage in OVA–p(Man–TLR7) is cleaved upon endocytosis and augments antigen presentation to T cells, as compared with a disulfide-reduction-sensitive non-self-immolative linkage.

Fig. 2: p(Man–TLR7) targets lymph nodes and increases antigen delivery to multiple DC subsets via mannose-binding receptors.
figure2
a, Chemical structure of OVA conjugated to p(Man–TLR7) via a non-self-immolative linkage (OVA–Traut–p(Man–TLR7)). b, Representative flow cytometry plots showing CFSE dilution of OTI (CD8+) and OTII (CD4+) T cells after incubation with DCs treated with medium, or pulsed with 10 μg ml−1 of OVA as OVA–Traut–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA–p(Man–TLR7). Values represent percentage of proliferating OTI or OTII cells gated on diminished CFSE fluorescent signal (values represent mean ± s.e.m.). c, Radiant efficiency of the dLNs of mice after 48 h of treatment with saline, OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA649 + p(Man–TLR7), and images of popliteal lymph nodes taken from n = 3 mice treated with OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) (i), OVA649 + p(Man–TLR7) (ii) or saline (iii). d, Percentage of OVA+ DCs of DC subsets in the dLNs of mice 12 h after treatment with OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA649 + p(Man–TLR7). DCs defined as CD8+ cDCs (CD11c+CD11b−CD8+), CD103+ cDCs (CD11c+CD11b−CD8−CD4−CD103+), pDCs (CD11c+CD11b−CD8−B220+), CD11b+CD4+ cDCs (CD11c+CD11b+CD4−CD103−CD205+) and CD11b+CD103− cDCs (CD11c+CD11b+CD4−CD8−CD103−CD205−). e,f, Blockade of mannose-binding C-type lectins inhibits uptake of OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) in ex vivo cultures of primary DCs. g, Percentage of H-2Kb SIINFEKL+ CD8+ and CD103+ DCs from mice treated with OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA649 + p(Man–TLR7). h,i, MFI (a.u.) of the costimulatory molecules CD80 (h) and CD86 (i) of OVA+ DCs from the dLNs of mice 12 h after treatment with either OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA649 + p(Man–TLR7). For b,c,f data presented as mean ± s.e.m. and statistical differences determined by one-way ANOVA using Bonferroni’s post hoc test (b,f, n = 4 mice per group; c, n = 3 mice per group). For d,g–i, statistical differences were determined via two-tailed t-test (n = 4 mice per group). Each experiment was repeated twice with similar results.

Full size image
T-cell activation in response to intradermal (i.d.) vaccination is centralized to the secondary lymphoid organs. To demonstrate that conjugating p(Man–TLR7) to antigens increases antigen localization to the draining lymph nodes (dLNs) and spleen, C57Bl/6 mice were vaccinated by i.d. injection with OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) or an equivalent amount of OVA649 and unconjugated p(Man–TLR7). After 48 h, fluorescence imaging of the organs revealed that OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) increases antigen retention in the sentinel draining lymph nodes (dLNs) (Fig. 2c), while inhibiting systemic accumulation (Supplementary Fig. 11). To determine if retention of OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) in the dLNs resulted in enhanced DC uptake, the various DC subsets within the dLNs were analysed for OVA649 via flow cytometry. Analysis of the dLNs after vaccination (Supplementary Fig. 12) revealed a nearly 6- and 3.5-fold increase in the fraction of OVA649+ CD8+ T-cell-priming CD8+ conventional DCs (cDCs) and CD103+ migratory cDCs in mice treated with OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) compared with OVA649 + p(Man–TLR7) (Fig. 2d). The dLNs of mice treated with OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) experienced a more than fivefold increase in the fraction of OVA649+ CD4+ T-cell-priming CD4+CD11b+ cDCs and migratory CD11b+CD103− cDCs as compared with the dLNs of mice treated with OVA649 + p(Man–TLR7) (Fig. 2d). Treatment with OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) also significantly elevated the fraction of OVA649+ plasmacytoid DCs (pDCs) within the dLNs. Additionally, OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) increased the total amount of antigen within each of the examined DC subsets (Supplementary Fig. 13). OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) is more efficiently taken up by DCs than conjugates formulated from OVA649 conjugated to polymers synthesized with mTLR7 but lacking mannose targeting (p(HPMA–TLR7)) (Supplementary Figs. 7, 14). Additionally, conjugating OVA to p(Man–TLR7) augmented antigen uptake by macrophages, neutrophils and inflammatory monocytes (Supplementary Figs. 15, 16), which can participate in T- and B-cell activation31,32. To further elaborate the mechanism of internalization of antigen–p(Man–TLR7) by the DC subsets analysed here, primary DCs were preincubated ex vivo with mannose or D-galactose and then treated with OVA649–p(Man–TLR7). We found that endocytosis of OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) was significantly inhibited by mannose but not D-galactose (Fig. 2e,f). These results illustrate that conjugating antigens to p(Man–TLR7) increases antigen delivery to DC subsets that specialize in presentation to both CD8+ and CD4+ T cells.

Naive T-cell activation is predicated upon T-cell receptor recognition of its cognate antigen–MHC complex and ligation of activated DC-derived costimulatory molecules. To verify that the increased uptake generated by p(Man–TLR7) in DCs resulted in increased cross-presentation, OVA649+ CD8+ and OVA+ CD103+ cDCs from animals treated with OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA649 + p(Man–TLR7) were analysed via flow cytometry for the presence of the OVA-derived CD8+ immunodominant peptide SIINFEKL bound to MHC I. Indeed, both CD8+ and CD103+ cDCs from the dLNs of animals treated with OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) presented more MHC I-bound SIINFEKL than animals treated with OVA649 + p(Man–TLR7) (Fig. 2g). In addition, OVA649+ DCs from mice treated with OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) expressed substantially more CD80 (Fig. 2h) and CD86 (Fig. 2i) than OVA649+ DCs from animals treated with OVA649 + p(Man–TLR7), a particularly important result considering that proliferating T-cell clones may become anergic in the absence of proper costimulation33. Thus, conjugating antigen to p(Man–TLR7) elevates DC antigen presentation and the expression of costimulatory molecules—the two necessary signals for naive T-cell activation.

Adjuvants that pass thought the lymphatic tissues and drain via the efferent lymph into the circulation can induce systemic inflammation19. Given the ability of antigen–p(Man–TLR7) conjugates to localize to the dLNs, antigen–p(Man–TLR7) conjugates should avoid a systemic inflammatory response. We immunized mice with OVA–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA and CpG then measured the serum concentration of IL-6 or IL-12p70 at 2, 24 and 48 h after immunization. Our results show that, while OVA + CpG generated a significant increase in the serum concentration of IL-6 and IL-12p70 at 2 and 24 h, OVA–p(Man–TLR7) did not increase the serum concentration of these proinflammatory cytokines (Fig. 3a, Supplementary Fig. 17). Thus, OVA–p(Man–TLR7) does not induce the acute systemic inflammation generated by CpG.

Fig. 3: OVA–p(Man–TLR7) vaccination avoids systemic inflammation and enhances the magnitude and quality of OVA-specific humoral and T-cell responses.
figure3
a, Plasma cytokine concentration on day 29 of C57Bl/6 mice immunized with saline, OVA–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA + CpG on days 0 and 28. b–k, C57Bl/6 mice were immunized with saline or 20 μg of OVA and 30 μg of TLR7 ligand formulated as OVA–p(Man–TLR7), OVA + p(Man–TLR7), OVA-p(Man) + mTLR7, OVA + mTLR7 or OVA–p(HPMA–TLR7) on days 0 and 28. A week after the second immunization, cells from the dLNs were collected and restimulated with SIINFEKL or OVA and analysed via multi-parameter flow cytometry. b, Percentages of H-2Kb-SIINFEKL pentamer+ CD3ε+CD8α+ in the dLNs. c, Percentages of IFN-γ+ CD8+ T cells in cells isolated from the dLNs after 6 h restimulation with SIINFEKL. d, Percentages of IFN-γ+ CD4+ T cells isolated from the dLNs after 6 h restimulation with OVA. e, Representative gating for Tfh cells (CXCR5+ PD-1+) on the viable (CD3+ CD4+) cell population. f, Fraction of Tfh cells of total CD4+ T cells in the spleen as determined by flow cytometry. g, OVA-specific IgG antibody titres in the serum. h–j. Number of OVA-specific IgG- (h), IgA- (i) and IgM- (j) PCs per 3.0 × 105 splenocytes as determined by B-cell ELISpot. k, Fraction of OVA-specific memory B cells (CD45+ CD19+ B220+ CD138− CD38+ GL7− OVA+) as a percentage of total B cells. All symbols represent individual mice. Data in a,b,f,g,k represented as mean ± s.e.m. (a, n = 4 mice per group; b–k, n = 6 mice per group, except saline and OVA–p(HPMA-TLR7) treated animals, where n = 5 mice per group). Box plots extend from 25th to 75th percentiles and whiskers represent minimum and maximum values. Statistical differences in all graphs were determined by one-way ANOVA using Bonferroni’s post hoc test. Bold P values represent statistical significance with respect to saline-treated animals; all other P values represent statistical significance with respect to all other treatment groups or as indicated. The experiment was repeated twice with similar results.

Full size image
To verify that the functionalities engineered into antigen–p(Man–TLR7) conjugates contribute to their in vivo efficacy, we compared the immune response generated by OVA–p(Man–TLR7) conjugates with the immune response of OVA/mTLR7 formulations lacking p(Man–TLR7)-mediated delivery, a polymeric form of mTLR7, or mannose targeting. C57Bl/6 mice were vaccinated with OVA formulated as OVA–p(Man–TLR7), OVA + p(Man–TLR7), OVA conjugated to p(Man) and free mTLR7 (OVA–p(Man) + mTLR7), OVA and mTLR7 (OVA + mTLR7) or OVA–p(HPMA–TLR7). OVA–p(Man–TLR7) conjugates produce a more pronounced and higher-quality OVA-specific T-cell response compared with non-targeted and non-polymeric adjuvant formulations. Specifically, vaccination with OVA–p(Man–TLR7) generated a 3.5- and 2.5-fold increase in the fraction and total number of pentamer+ CD8+ T cells in the dLNs (Fig. 3b, Supplementary Fig. 18) and spleen (Supplementary Fig. 19), respectively, compared with OVA + p(Man–TLR7), the only other treatment that augmented pentamer+ CD8+ T cells. Upon restimulation with SIINFEKL, cells from the dLNs and spleens of animals treated with OVA–p(Man–TLR7) had a greater fraction of cytokine+ T cells (Fig. 3c, Supplementary Fig. 19), and a greater number of multifunctional CD8+ T cells producing both IFN-γ and TNFα (Supplementary Fig. 19), which are associated with enhanced protection34, than mice vaccinated with other formulations. Analogous results were obtained in the CD4+ T-cell compartment. In response to antigen restimulation, cell populations from the dLNs and spleen of mice vaccinated with OVA–p(Man–TLR7) showed a notable increase in the fraction of cytokine+ CD4+ cells (Fig. 3d) and the number of multifunctional TNFα+ IFN-γ+ CD4+ T cells (Supplementary Fig. 19) compared with the dLNs from mice treated with other OVA/TLR7 vaccine formulations. These results confirm that p(Man–TLR7)’s ability to increase delivery to DCs and the incorporation of a TLR7 ligand into our polymeric glyco-adjuvant are vital to the T-cell-mediated immune responses generated by OVA–p(Man–TLR7).

Next, we analysed the dLNs and spleen of mice vaccinated as described above for the existence of the cells necessary to establish and maintain humoral immunity. For example, follicular helper CD4+ T (Tfh) cells are essential for B-cell affinity maturation and differentiation into memory B cells35. Animals vaccinated with OVA–p(Man–TLR7) showed an increase in the fraction of Tfh cells in both the spleen (Fig. 3e,f; Supplementary Fig. 20) and dLNs (Supplementary Fig. 21) compared with mice treated with other formulations. To determine if the increase in Tfh cells augmented serum antibody titres and the class diversity of antibody-producing cells (PCs), we measured the serum IgG concentration and enumerated the IgM-PCs and class-switched IgA- and IgG-PCs via ELISpot. Animals that received OVA–p(Man–TLR7) had an approximately 1000 times greater anti-OVA IgG plasma concentration than mice from other treatment groups (Fig. 3g). Additionally, the spleens from OVA–p(Man–TLR7)-treated mice showed a 2-, 3- and 1.6-fold increase in the relative number of OVA-specific IgG-, IgA- and IgM-PCs, respectively, in comparison with the spleen of animals vaccinated with OVA + p(Man–TLR7) (Fig. 3h–j, Supplementary Fig. 21). Analysis of the splenic OVA+ memory B-cell population revealed that mice vaccinated with OVA–p(Man–TLR7) realized a considerable increase in OVA+ memory B cells as a percentage of total B cells with respect to vaccination with other OVA/TLR7 formulations (Fig. 4k). Conjugating OVA to p(Man–TLR7) results in a pronounced increase in the magnitude and quality of the humoral immune response.

Fig. 4: OVA–p(Man–TLR7) induces superior T-cell and humoral responses compared with other formulations composed of polymeric TLR7.
figure4
a–d, C57Bl/6 mice were immunized with saline or 10 μg of OVA and 10 μg of TLR7 ligand formulated as OVA–p(Man–TLR7), OVA–Traut–p(Man–TLR7) (lacking self-immolative linker) or OVA + TLR7-P on days 0 and 14. a, Percentage of H-2Kb-SIINFEKL pentamer+ CD3ε+ CD8α+ in the dLNs 10 d after the second vaccination. b,c, Percentage of IFN-γ+ CD8α+ (b) and IFN-γ+ CD4+ (c) T cells from the dLNs after 6 h restimulation with SIINFEKL or OVA, respectively. d, Fraction of Tfh cells (CD3ε+ CD4+ CXCR5+ PD-1+) of total CD4+ T cells in the spleen as determined by flow cytometry. e,f. C57Bl/6 mice were immunized with saline, OVA–p(Man–TLR7), OVA–Traut–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA + TLR7-P. Seven days after immunization, CFSEhigh SIINFEKL-loaded and CFSElow non-loaded splenocytes were mixed (1:1) and adoptively transferred via intravenous injection into vaccinated mice. The next day, the spleens were analysed for CFSE+ T-cell content by flow cytometry. e, Representative flow cytometry plots after gating on viable total splenocytes and then CFSE+ cells. f, Percentage of SIINFEKL-specific lysed cells for each formulation. g, Total αOVA IgG titres in mice on days 0, 7, 20, 28, 50, 58 and 120 of mice vaccinated on days 0, 21 and 51 with saline, OVA–p(Man–TLR7), OVA–Traut–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA + TLR7-P. In a–d,f,g, data plotted as mean ± s.e.m. (n = 5 mice per group). In g, green and blue P values represent statistical significance for OVA–Traut–p(Man–TLR7)- and OVA + TLR7-P-treated animals, respectively, at the indicated time point. Symbols represent individual mice. All statistical differences were determined by one-way ANOVA using Bonferroni’s post hoc test. Bold P values represent statistical significance with respect to saline-treated animals; all other P values represent statistical significance with respect to all other treatment groups or as indicated. Experiments were repeated twice with similar results.

Full size image
To benchmark antigen–p(Man–TLR7) with other formulations composed of polymer-linked TLR7, we vaccinated mice with OVA as either OVA–p(Man–TLR7), OVA–Traut–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA admixed with particles formulated from polymers decorated with TLR7 ligand (TLR7-P). TLR7-P were synthesized36 by conjugating the TLR7-activating imidazoquinoline incorporated into p(Man–TLR7) to an amine-reactive HPMA-based copolymer to generate poly(HPMA–TLR7), which self-assembled into submicrometre particles (~710 nm diameter). Analysis of the blood, spleen and dLNs after booster immunization revealed that OVA–p(Man–TLR7) induces a more pronounced humoral and cellular immune response than OVA–Traut–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA + TLR7-P. Although OVA–Traut–p(Man–TLR7) and TLR7-P + OVA induced a measurable CD8+ T-cell response in the dLNs, OVA–p(Man–TLR7) generated a superior fraction of pentamer+ CD8+ T cells (Fig. 4a) as well as an increased fraction of IFN-γ-producing CD8+ T cells (Fig. 4b). The CD8+ T-cell results were mirrored in the CD4+ T-cell compartment of OVA–p(Man–TLR7)-vaccinated animals, which experienced a greater percentage of IFN-γ-producing CD4+ T cells in the dLNs (Fig. 4c) and Tfh cells (Fig. 4d) as compared with OVA–Traut–p(Man–TLR7)- or OVA + TLR7-P-vaccinated animals.

In addition to antigen-specific CD8+ T-cell expansion and cytokine production, we measured the antigen-specific CD8+ T-cell cytotoxic activity using an in vivo killing assay. Mice were treated with OVA–p(Man–TLR7), OVA–Traut–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA + TLR7-P. After 7 d, the animals were given an infusion of SIINFEKL peptide-pulsed splenocytes labelled with a high level of CFSE and an equivalent number of non-pulsed splenocytes labelled with a low level of CFSE. Analysis of the spleens of these animals on day 8 revealed that OVA–p(Man–TLR7) induced an increased level of SIINFEKL-specific cell lysis as compared with the other treatments (Fig. 4e,f), thus demonstrating the enhanced in vivo killing capabilities of CD8+ T cells raised by OVA–p(Man–TLR7).

To test if the elevated fractions of Tfh cells initiated by OVA–p(Man–TLR7) resulted in a more pronounced and lasting humoral immune response, we vaccinated mice on days 0, 21 and 51 with OVA–p(Man–TLR7), OVA–Traut–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA + TLR7-P. The serum of mice vaccinated with OVA–p(Man–TLR7) showed elevated OVA IgG titres on days 28, 50, 58 and 120 as compared with the serum of animals vaccinated with OVA–Traut–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA + TLR7-P (Fig. 4g).

We turned our focus to demonstrating the efficacy of our platform using a clinically relevant antigen. With nearly 200 million cases reported and 600,000 deaths annually, malaria remains a major global health problem37. The most clinically advanced malaria vaccine is comprised of a particulate antigen (RTS,S) containing peptides from the carboxy terminus and central repeat regions of CSP and a liposomal adjuvant (AS01E) composed of the TLR4 ligand monophosphoryl lipid A (MPLA) and the saponin QS-2138,39. RTS,S/AS01E induces protection in 30%–50% of patients by eliciting CSP-specific antibodies and a modest CD4+ T-cell response40, but fails to induce a significant CSP-specific CD8+ T-cell response2. We chose to benchmark the immune response elicited by full-length CSP conjugated to p(Man–TLR7) to formulations composed of CSP and liposomes formulated as AS01E (AS01E-like liposomes, AS01E)41, CSP with the TLR3 ligand poly(I:C), which confers CSP-specific humoral immunity in mice and non-human primates42, or CSP and R848, a widely used imidazoquinoline adjuvant43. BALB/c mice were vaccinated and boosted with the above formulations. Seven days after the second immunization, splenocytes and cells from the dLNs were collected and the CSP-specific immune response was measured via T-cell ELISpot, flow cytometry and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA).

Our results show that only CSP–p(Man–TLR7) generated a CSP-specific CD8+ T-cell immune response (Fig. 5a–c, Supplementary Figs. 22-25). For example, analysis of cells from the dLN after restimulation with CD8-dominant CSP peptides revealed that CSP–p(Man–TLR7) induced a significant increase in the relative number of IFN-γ-secreting cells (Fig. 5a), the fraction of TNFα+ CD8+ T cells (Fig. 5b) and the percentage of multifunctional TNFα+ IFN-γ+ CD8+ T cells (Fig. 5c) when compared with mice vaccinated with other formulations. Analysis of the CSP-specific CD8+ T-cell response in the spleen yielded analogous results (Supplementary Fig. 25).

Fig. 5: CSP–p(Man–TLR7) induces superior CSP-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell response compared with CSP formulated with leading adjuvants.
figure5
Balb/C mice were immunized on day 0 and day 21 with saline or 10 μg of CSP formulated as CSP–p(Man–TLR7), CSP + AS01EL, CSP + R848 (20 μg) or CSP + poly(I:C) (50 μg). AS01EL and poly(I:C) were used at doses reported to confer humoral immunity in mice when paired with CSP41,42. On day 28, the dLNs and spleens were collected and analysed for CSP-specific T-cell responses via T-cell ELISpot, flow cytometry and ELISA. a, Number of IFN-γ-secreting cells per 4.0 × 105 as determined by ELISpot in the dLNs after 24 h restimulation with a CD8-dominant peptide epitope of CSP. b,c, Fraction of TNFα+ (b) and double-positive TNFα+ IFN-γ+ cells (c) in the CD8+ T-cell population from the dLNs on 6 h of restimulation with CD8-dominant peptide epitope and analysis via flow cytometry. d, Number of IFN-γ-secreting cells per 4.0 × 105 as determined by ELISpot in the dLNs after 24 h restimulation with a CD4-dominant CSP peptide epitope. e,f, Fraction of TNFα+ (e) and TNFα+ IFN-γ+ cells (f) in the CD4+ T-cell populations of the dLNs on 6 h restimulation with a peptide epitope of CSP. g,h, Concentration of IFN-γ (g) and TNFα (h) in the supernatant of dLN-resident cells after 3 d restimulation with CD4-dominant CSP peptide. In b,c,e–h, data presented as mean ± s.e.m. (n = 7 mice per group). All symbols represent individual mice. Box plots extend from 25th to 75th percentiles and whiskers represent minimum and maximum values (n = 7 mice per group). All statistical differences were determined by one-way ANOVA using Bonferroni’s post hoc test. Bold P values represent statistical significance with respect to saline-treated animals; all other P values represent statistical significance with respect to all other treatment groups or as indicated. The experiment was repeated twice with similar results.

Full size image
Analysis of the CD4+ T-cell compartment in the dLNs and spleen showed that, while both CSP + AS01EL and CSP + poly(I:C) were able to activate CD4+ T cells, CSP–p(Man–TLR7) generated a more distinct CD4+ T-cell response (Fig. 5d–h). After restimulation with CD4-dominant CSP peptides, the dLNs of mice vaccinated with CSP–p(Man–TLR7) induced a 1.5-fold increase in the relative number of IFN-γ-secreting cells (Fig. 5d), a 1.5-fold increase in the fraction of TNFα+ CD4+ T cells (Fig. 5e) and a significant increase in the percentage of multifunctional TNFα+ IFN-γ+ CD4+ T cells (Fig. 5f) as compared with mice treated with CSP + AS01EL. Additionally, after restimulation with a CD4-dominant CSP peptide, cells collected from the dLNs of animals treated with CSP–p(Man–TLR7) produced more IFN-γ and TNF-α (Fig. 5g,h) than cells from animals receiving other formulations. Comparable results were obtained for the CD4+ T-cell response in the spleen (Supplementary Fig. 25). Together, these results confirm the ability of CSP–p(Man–TLR7) conjugates to induce a CD8+ T-cell response and a more impressive CD4+ T-cell response than other CSP/leading adjuvant formulations.

Analysis of the Tfh cell compartment showed that vaccination with CSP–p(Man–TLR7) resulted in an expansion in the fraction of Tfh cells as compared with mice vaccinated with other CSP formulations (Fig. 6a). This increase in Tfh cells was echoed in the CSP-specific antibody response, where mice treated with CSP–p(Man–TLR7) experienced a 1.7- and 3.6-fold increase in serum antibody concentration compared with mice vaccinated with CSP + AS01EL or CSP + poly(I:C), respectively (Fig. 6b). In addition to antibody concentration, increased epitope diversity in the antigen-binding antibody repertoire correlates with improved antigen neutralization and neutralization of drifted antigens44 (antigen with accumulated mutations). The linear CSP epitopes targeted by the IgGs raised by each formulation were mapped using a peptide array that spanned CSP and consisted of 256 unique 20-amino-acid peptides that were offset by a single amino acid. Vaccination with CSP–p(Man–TLR7), CSP + AS01EL, CSP + R848 and CSP + poly(I:C) raised IgGs that recognized 64, 19, 1 and 1 of the 265 CSP peptides, respectively (Fig. 6c, Supplementary Fig. 26). CSP–p(Man–TLR7) induced an IgG repertoire that bound to 21 epitopes in the TSR domain of CSP (CSP191–258), blockage of which suppresses sporozoite invasion into hepatocytes45. Importantly, IgGs raised by CSP–p(Man–TLR7) recognized twice as many peptides (10) within the amino-terminal domain of CSP (CSP22–87) than the IgG repertoire elicited by CSP + AS01EL, a particularly exciting result, given that antibodies against CSP’s N-terminal domain, which is absent from the RTS,S antigen, are associated with protection in children, the group least protected by RTS,S/AS01E46.

Fig. 6: CSP–p(Man–TLR7) increases CSP-specific IgGs that are specific for a wide range of CSP epitopes and reduces malaria parasite burden in human hepatocytes.
figure6
Balb/C mice were immunized as described in Fig. 5. a, Day 28 fraction of splenic Tfh (CD3ε+ CD4+ CXCR5+ PD-1+) as a percentage of total CD4+ T cells. b, CSP-specific IgG plasma antibody activity titre on day 28. c, Epitope mapping of CSP-specific plasma IgG using a CSP peptide array consisting of 256 20-amino-acid peptides that spanned the entire CSP sequence and were offset by a single amino acid. Colours represent the average fluorescence intensity of the treatment group for each peptide epitope. d, Number of parasites per hepatocyte of hepatocytes cultured with sporozoites pretreated with diluted serum from animals vaccinated with saline, CSP–p(Man–TLR7) or CSP + AS01EL. All symbols represent individual mice. Data in a,b,d presented as mean ± s.e.m. (n = 7 mice per group). In c, colour corresponds to average signal for n = 6 mice of each group (a.u.). All statistical differences were determined by one-way ANOVA using Bonferroni’s post hoc test. Bold P values represent statistical significance with respect to saline-treated animals; all other P values represent statistical significance with respect to all other treatment groups or as indicated. The experiment was repeated twice with similar results.

Full size image
Given that, of the other formulations, CSP + AS01EL induced the most robust antibody response, we performed a head-to-head comparison of the ability of serum from CSP–p(Man–TLR7)- and CSP + AS01EL-treated animals to inhibit sporozoite invasion into primary human hepatocytes. P. falciparum sporozoites were isolated from infected mosquitoes and then incubated with diluted sera from vaccinated animals. The serum-treated sporozoites were then cocultured with primary human hepatocytes, and the number of invading sporozoites was quantified. Our results show that, at a concentration of 1%, serum from CSP–p(Man–TLR7)-treated animals provided a more significant sporozoite inhibition as compared with serum from CSP + AS01EL-vaccinated mice (Fig. 6d). However, at a fivefold lower serum concentration, serum from CSP–p(Man–TLR7)-vaccinated mice, and not CSP + AS01EL-vaccinated mice, achieved a significant level of sporozite inhibition in primary human hepatocytes.

In concert, our studies demonstrate the efficacy and safety of a vaccine platform based on antigens reversibly conjugated to a synthetic polymeric glyco-adjuvant. The simplicity of our strategy allows the conjugation of p(Man–TLR7) to both amine-containing peptides and whole proteins, which increases the impact of our approach given that an antigen’s immunodominant peptide epitopes are rarely known a priori. Unlike some particulate formations that can damage encapsulated proteins upon loading and release47, our strategy utilizes a minimal biomaterial footprint and antigens are released from p(Man–TLR7) without chemical or recombinant modifications. Given the insensitivity of RAFT polymerizations to a wide variety of functional groups48, our strategy can incorporate other TLR ligands into the polymer to generate p(Man–TLRx) or p(Man–TLRx–TLRy), which would allow us to tune the immune response for specific applications49. Our immunological results demonstrate that antigen–p(Man–TLR7) conjugates elicit a more robust and higher-quality humoral and cellular immune response than formulations composed of the substituent materials or clinically relevant and commonly used imidazoquinoline adjuvants. Moreover, systemic adverse effects were diminished by localizing adjuvant delivery to peripheral lymphoid organs. Given the need for safe vaccine platforms that induce humoral and cellular immunity in the treatment of infectious diseases and malignancy, we anticipate numerous applications for antigen–p(Man–TLR7) conjugates.

Methods: Unless otherwise stated, chemicals were reagent grade and purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. CpG-B 1826 was purchased from Microsynth. Cell-culture-grade media, serum and antibiotics were from Invitrogen unless otherwise noted. Before administration to mice, the endotoxin levels of all formulations were monitored using HEK-Blue™ hTLR4 cells from InvivoGen. TLR7 activation studies were carried out using HEK-Blue™ hTLR7 cells from InvivoGen as recommended by the manufacturer. Unless specifically noted, all antibodies for flow cytometry were obtained from BioLegend. A detailed explanation of the synthesis and characterization of all polymers, conjugates and intermediates is provided as Supplementary Methods.

General procedure for OVA-, SOD- and CSP-self-immolative linker conjugates (3)
EndoGrade® OVA (Hyglos) (10 mg, 222.2 nmol), SOD (7.2 mg, 222.2 nmol) or CSP (7.8 mg, 222.2 nmol (Gennova) and self-immolative linker (5 mg) were added to an endotoxin-free tube. Phosphate buffer at pH 7.7 (200 μL) was added to the tube and stirred for 1 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was then filtered (0.22 μm) and the conjugates were purified via Zeba spin desalting columns with a 30 kDa cutoff limit (Thermo Fisher). Chemical conjugation was verified via gel electrophoresis and high-pressure size-exclusion chromatography.

OVA–p(HPMA–TLR7)
Compound 3 in PBS prepared as described above was added to an endotoxin-free tube; p(HPMA–TLR7) 2 (30 mg) was added and the tube was stirred for 30 min at room temperature. The reaction mixture was then filtered (0.22 μm) and the final product was purified via size-exclusion chromatography. Chemical conjugation was verified via gel electrophoresis and high-pressure size-exclusion chromatography. The TLR7 content was determined via absorbance at 327 nm.

Animals
All studies with animals were carried out in accordance with procedures approved by the Swiss Veterinary Authority and the EPFL Centre d’Application du Vivant and the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee at the University of Chicago. C57BL/6 and Balb/C female mice, aged between 8 and 12 weeks, were purchased from Harlan or Charles River. To generate CD45.1+ OTI and OTII mice, C57BL/6-Tg (TcraTcrb) 1100 Mjb (OTI) and C57BL/6-Tg(TcraTcrb)425Cbn/Crl (OTII) mice (Jackson Laboratories) were crossed with C57BL/6-Ly5.1 (Charles River) and bred in specific pathogen-free conditions at EPFL.

Organ processing
Spleens and dLNs were collected and incubated in ice-cold IMDM until processing. Spleens were processed into a single-cell suspension via mechanical disruption and passage through a 70 μm screen. The splenocytes were washed with PBS and then exposed to 0.155 M NH4Cl for 5 min at room temperature to lyse red blood cells. The axial, brachial, popliteal and inguinal lymph nodes were mechanically disrupted then digested at 37 °C for 45 min in collagenase D (Roche) before being passed through a 70 μm screen. The lymph-node single-cell suspension was washed with PBS and resuspended in IMDM. These single-cell suspensions were then used in cocultured assays, restimulation experiments, T-cell ELISpots or B cell ELISpots, or directly stained for flow cytometry analysis.

Flow cytometry
Flow cytometry measurements were performed using a LSRII flow cytometer (BD) and the data were analysed using FlowJo version 10.0.8 (Tree Star). For staining, cells were washed with PBS and stained for 15 min on ice with eFluor 780 fixable viability dye (eBioscience). The cells were washed with PBS three times, then resuspended in antibody cocktail and PBS + 2% fetal bovine serum (FBS) for 30 min to perform surface staining. Antibodies were washed from the cells three times with PBS + 2% FBS, and the cells were then fixed for 15 min in PBS + 2% paraformaldehyde, before being washed three times and resuspended in PBS + 2% FBS. If required, intracellular staining of IFN-γ and TNFα was carried out on ice in PBS supplemented with 2% FBS and 0.5% saponin. For staining of BMDCs and OTI and OTII cells, cells were washed with PBS and stained for viability using Live/Dead fixable dye (Life Technologies) for 15 min on ice. The cells were then washed with PBS three times and resuspended in antibody cocktail with PBS + 2% FBS for surface staining for 30 min. Cells were then washed three times with PBS + 2% FBS, and finally fixed for 15 min in PBS + 2% paraformaldehyde.

BMDC activation and competitive inhibition studies
BMDCs were prepared from C57Bl/6 mice (Harlan) as previously described50 and used on day 8–9. For BMDC activation studies, 2 × 105 cells per well were seeded in round-bottom 96-well plates (Fisher Scientific) in IMDM with 10% FBS and 2% penicillin/streptomycin (Life Technologies), and treated with varying concentrations of p(Man), mTLR7, mTLR7 and mannose monomer as free monomers, or p(Man–TLR7), then incubated at 37 °C. After 6 h, half the samples were collected, stained and analysed by flow cytometry. The rest of the samples were allowed to culture for 12 h at 37 °C and cytokine concentration was measured in the media by Ready-Set-Go™ ELISA kits (Thermo Fisher) as detailed in the manufacturer’s instructions. Competition studies were performed similarly. Cells were preincubated for 20 min at 37 °C with various concentrations of mannose cocktail (mannose/mannan), αCD206 (Biolegend), αCD209 (Biolegend) or isotype control antibody (Thermo Fisher). Subsequently, OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) was added to the cells for 45 min at 37 °C and the cells were washed twice in cell culture medium. Cells treated with mannose cocktail were allowed to incubate in fresh medium for an additional 5 h at 37 °C before being analysed via flow cytometry. Cells treated with antibodies were allowed to incubate in fresh medium for an additional 1 h at 37 °C before being analysed via flow cytometry. Additionally, cells were preincubated in media at 4 °C for 45 min then OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) was added to the cell medium and the cells were incubated at 4 °C for an additional 45 min. These cells were then washed twice and allowed to incubate in fresh medium for an additional 1 h or 5 h at 4 °C before being analysed via flow cytometry.

Intracellular release of OVA from OVA–p(Man–TLR7) in BMDCs
BMDCs were washed twice with cold Hanks’ balanced salt solution (HBSS) containing 10% FBS and 400 μM 5,5′-dithio-bis(2-nitrobenzoic acid) (DTNB), to inhibit cell surface reduction, and then resuspended in cold HBSS/FBS containing DTNB and OVA (2.5 mg ml−1) as OVA–p(Man–TLR7) or unconjugated OVA (7 mg ml−1) as a reference for intracellular OVA release (5 × 107 cells per 10 cm dish). The cells were then incubated for 30 min at 4 °C. The cells were then incubated for 15 min at 37 °C before being washed twice with HBSS/FBS and incubated in HBSS/FBS at 37 °C. At various time points, N-ethylmaleimide (20 μM) was added and the cells were extracted in 0.1% Triton X-100 containing protease inhibitors (Thermo Fisher) and DTNB. For each time point, n = 3 replicates were performed and the replicates were pooled and concentrated via ultracentrifugal filtration (30 kDa molecular weight cutoff, Amicon). The extracts were analysed after non-reducing SDS–PAGE, Western blotting and probing with FITC-αOVA (Abcam). Blots were imaged with a Gel Doc XR+ gel documentation system (BioRAD) and the images were analysed with Image Lab (v 6.0.1) (BioRAD) and ImageJ (Supplementary Fig. 3).

In vitro coculture assay for T-cell priming
Cocultures were performed using day 7–8 BMDCs (prepared as described above) as antigen-presenting cells (APCs), with CFSE-labelled CD8+ T or CD4+ T cells negatively selected from processed spleens and lymph nodes of OTI or OTII transgenic mice, respectively, using an EasySep™ mouse CD8+ T or CD4+ T cell isolation kit (Stemcell Technologies) following the manufacturer’s protocol. Enriched T cells were labelled with 1 μM CFSE (Molecular Probes) in PBS–0.1% BSA for 10 min at 37 °C. The reaction was quenched with FBS and cells were washed three times with complete Roswell Park Memorial Institute (RPMI) medium (RPMI + 10% FBS). For the assay, 104 BMDCs were cultured in RPMI-1640 medium supplemented with 10% FBS and 2% penicillin–streptomycin (Life Technologies) and treated with 10 μg ml−1 of OVA as OVA–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA–Traut–p(Man–TLR7), then incubated at 37 °C. After 3 h, BMDCs were washed of excess conjugate with PBS and cocultured with naïve T cells (either OTI or OTII) at a ratio of 1:10 APC:T cells in 200 μl of IMDM with 10% FBS and 2% penicillin–streptomycin in round-bottom 96-well plates. As positive controls, the cocultures were exposed to either 1 nM OVA257–264 SIINFEKL peptide for CD8+ T-cell cocultures, or 1 µM endotoxin-free OVA (Hyglos) for CD4+ T-cell cocultures. After 3 d, T cells were stained for phenotype markers and CFSE dilution was assessed via flow cytometry as an indication of proliferation.

In vivo uptake of OVA conjugates
Biodistribution studies were conducted with equivalent amounts of Alexa Fluor 649-labelled OVA649 (40 μg) formulated as OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA and an equivalent amount of unconjugated p(Man–TLR7). C57Bl/6 mice were injected i.d. via the four footpads with Alexa Fluor 649-labelled OVA formulations (20 μl each pad). After 12 h, the dLNs and spleens were collected. Cells were processed then stained as described above with the various DC subset markers shown in Supplementary Fig. 9 and for MHC I bound SIINFEKL and analysed via flow cytometry.

Ex vivo competitive inhibition studies with primary DCs
Splenocytes and lymph node cells were isolated from C57Bl/6 mice, and the CD11c+ cells were isolated using an EasySep™ Mouse CD11c Positive Selection Kit II (Stemcell Technologies) following the manufacturer’s procedure for tissue digestion and cell separation. The resulting cell population was incubated at 1 × 106 cells per well in a 96-well plate for 2 h in cell culture medium at 37 °C. Cells were preincubated for 20 min at 37 °C with mannose cocktail (mannose/mannan) (0.5 mg ml−1), D-galactose (20 mM) or cell medium. Subsequently, the cells were treated with OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) for 45 min. After 45 min, the cells were washed twice with PBS and the DC subsets within the cell populations were analysed via flow cytometry for uptake of OVA649–p(Man–TLR7).

Biodistribution studies
C57Bl/6 mice were injected i.d. via the four footpads with OVA649–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA649 + p(Man–TLR7). After 48 h, the organs were collected from the animals and whole-organ fluorescence was measured via an IVIS® Spectrum in vivo imaging system (Perkin Elmer). Images were processed with Living Imaging 4.5.5 (Perkin Elmer).

In vitro stimulation of human monocyte-derived dendritic cells
Studies with human blood cells were pre-approved by the University of Chicago institutional review board. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells from healthy donors were purified from leukodepletion blood filters by a standard technique using LSM medium (MPBiomedicals). Monocytes were isolated by a positive selection using CD14 beads (StemCell Technologies) and monocyte-derived dendritic cells were differentiated from monocytes by a standard method by culturing with granulocyte–macrophage colony-stimulating factor (1000 U/106 cells, Peprotech) and IL-4 (500 U/106, Peprotech) in complete RMPI media (Corning) with 10% FBS (HyClone) for 6 d. Monocyte-derived dendritic cells were seeded in 96-well, round-bottom well plates at 1 × 105 cells/well in complete media in duplicates and stimulated with the TLR agonists at 37 °C. After 24 h cells were washed in PBS and stained with the anti-human Ab cocktail: CD11c, CD80, CD83 (BD) and HLA-DR, CD86, CD40 or isotype controls. Cells were washed in PBS + 5% FBS, fixed and analysed for phenotype on a LSRFortessa flow cytometer (BD).

Immunization studies with OVA
C57Bl/6 mice were vaccinated via i.d. injection into the footpads on days 0 and 28 with saline or 20 μg of OVA formulated as OVA–p(Man–TLR7) conjugates, OVA + p(Man–TLR7), OVA conjugated to a mannose polymer lacking the TLR7 ligand in combination with free mTLR7 (OVA-p(Man) + mTLR7), OVA and mTLR7 (OVA + mTLR7) or OVA conjugated to a random copolymer synthesized from mTLR7 and a water-soluble biologically inert comonomer (OVA–p(HPMA–TLR7)). Formulations containing TLR7 ligand contained molar equivalents of TLR7 ligand in monomeric TLR7 or polymeric form. Excess free p(Man–TLR7) or p(HPMA–TLR7) was added to OVA–p(Man–TLR7) and OVA–p(HPMA–TLR7) formulations, respectively, to achieve an exact dose of 30 μg TLR7 per mouse. Polymers were formulated with similar degrees of polymerization and mannose or mTLR7 units. On day 35, the spleen and dLNs of each animal were collected and processed as described above. Pentamer staining was performed with PE-labelled pro5 MHC pentamer H-2Kb/OVA257–264 (ProImmune, UK) according to the manufacturer’s instructions. Additionally, the spleens and dLNs were stained for Tfh cells and OVA+ memory B cells as shown in Supplementary Fig. 14. Cells from the spleen and dLNs were also restimulated in vitro in the presence of 1.0 mg ml−1 OVA (Sigma) or 1.0 μg ml−1 SIINFEKL peptide (Genscript) for 6 h in IMDM with 10% FBS and 2% penicillin–streptomycin. After 3 h of in vitro restimulation, Brefeldin-A (5.0 μg ml−1) was added, and the cells were incubated for another 3 h before intracellular cytokine expression was assessed by flow cytometry analysis. Restimualtion was also carried out on spleen and lymph node cells over 3 days for the measurement of secreted cytokines by ELISA using the Ready-Set-Go Kit (eBioscience). B-cell ELISpots were carried out on dilutions of 1.0 × 105, 5.0 × 104 and 3.0 × 104 splenocytes using goat anti-mouse IgA, IgG and IgM kits (MABTECH) in 96-well OVA-coated hydrophobic filter plates (EMDmillipore) per the manufacturer’s protocol. The number and optical density of spots was measured with an ELISpot reader (BioSys).

Measurement of the OVA antibody response in the blood
Blood was collected from the tail vein and serum was separated by centrifugation and stored at −20 °C. Sera and mucosal washes were assayed for antibody levels against OVA using ELISA. Briefly, Nunc-Immuno Maxisorb™ plates (Fisher Scientific) coated with OVA (10 g ml−1 in PBS fraction VI, Sigma) were blocked with 2.5% casein (Sigma), washed with PBS + 0.05% Tween 20, and incubated with serial dilutions of samples. After a further washing step, the plates were incubated with the secondary antibody HRP-conjugated goat anti-mouse IgA or IgG (Southern Biotechnology Associates), extensively washed and developed with TMB substrate (GE Healthcare). The absorbance was measured at 450 nm in a microtitre-plate spectrophotometer and data were analysed via Magellan™ software (standard version) (Tecan Group). The end-point titre of a sample was defined as the reciprocal of the highest dilution at which the 450 nm OD value was above the mean + 4 SD of that of naïve serum.

Immunization with polymer-linked TLR7 formulations
C57Bl/6 mice were vaccinated via i.d. injection into the footpads on days 0 and 14 with saline or 10 μg of OVA formulated as OVA–p(Man–TLR7), OVA–Traut–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA admixed with p(HPMA–TLR7) particles (OVA + TLR7-P). Formulations containing TLR7 ligand contained molar equivalents of TLR7 ligand in polymeric form. The animals were euthanized on day 24 and the humoral and T-cell responses in the dLNs and spleen were characterized as described above. To assay long-term antibody response, C57Bl/6 mice were vaccinated on days 0, 21 and 51, with saline or 10 μg of OVA formulated as OVA–p(Man–TLR7), OVA–Traut–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA + TLR7-P. On days 28, 50, 58 and 120, the mice were bled from the cheek and the serum anti-OVA IgG titre was determined by ELISA.

In vivo killing assay
On day 0, C57Bl/6 mice were vaccinated via i.d. injection into the footpads with saline or 10 μg of OVA formulated as OVA–p(Man–TLR7), OVA–Traut–p(Man–TLR7) or OVA + TLR7-P. On day 7, naive syngeneic splenocytes were incubated with SIINFEKL (10 μg ml−1) or in medium for 30 min at 37 °C, washed and labelled with 2.5 μM or 0.25 μM CFSE, respectively. CFSEhigh- and CFSElow-labelled cells were mixed in a 1:1 ratio (5 × 106) and injected intravenously into immunized and saline-treated mice. The percentage of CFSE-positive cells remaining in the spleen after 24 h was determined by flow cytometry. The percentage of specific lysis was calculated as 100 − [100 × (% CFSEhigh-vaccinated/%CFSElow-vaccinated)/(CFSEhigh-saline/% CFSElow-saline)].

Formulation of MPLA/QS-21-loaded liposomes (AS01EL)
The AS01E-like adjuvant was formulated as detailed according to the protocol given for AS01E in US patent US201102067581. Liposome solutions were formulated to contain 50 μg ml−1 and 3D-MPL and 25 μg ml−1 QS-21. Specifically, 500 μg 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (P6354), 125 μg cholesterol and 25 μg 3D-MPL (L6895 Sigma-Aldrich) were first dissolved in molecular-sieve-dried dichloromethane. The liposomes were formed by thin-layer rehydration using pH 6.1 PBS (9 mM Na2HPO4, 41 mM KH2PO4, 100 mM NaCl) to a volume of 0.5 ml. This was followed by extrusion using a 100 µm nucleopore track-etched filter. Liposomes were then sterile filtered through a 0.22 μm filter, and found to have an average diameter of approximately 150 nm with a polydispersity index (PDI) < 0.2 (Nano Zs Zetasizer, Malvern Instruments). QS-21 (Desert King International) was added to liposomes from a vortexed 5 mg ml−1 stock in endotoxin-free water and left to sit at room temperature for 5 min prior to syringe loading.

Immunization studies with P. falciparum CSP
On days 0 and 21, Balb/C mice were immunized via i.d. injection into the four footpads with 10 µg of malaria P. falciparum CSP (a gift from PATH) with the following formulations in addition to the saline control (adjuvant concentration per animal): CSP–p(Man–TLR7) (20 μg TLR7); free CSP in combination with AS01E- liposomes (5 μg MPLA & 5 μg QS-21) (CSP + AS01EL), with poly(I:C) (50 μg) (CSP + poly(I:C)) or with R848 (20 μg) (CSP + R848). AS01EL and poly(I:C) were used as previously reported39,42. Excess free p(Man–TLR7) was added to the CSP–p(Man–TLR7) formulation to achieve an exact dose of 20 μg mTLR7 per mouse. On day 28, the spleen and dLNs of each animal were harvested and processed as described above. Spleen cells were stained for Tfh cells with the panel shown in Supplementary Fig. 14. Spleen and lymph node cells were restimulated in vitro in the presence of 1.0 μg ml−1 of CD4- (EYLNKIQNSLSTEWSPCSVT) or CD8- (NYDNAGTNL) dominant peptide epitopes for 6 h in IMDM with 10% FBS and 2% penicillin–streptomycin. Intracellular cytokines were analysed as detailed above. Restimulation was also carried out with the CD4-dominant CSP peptide (EYLNKIQNSLSTEWSPCSVT) on spleen and lymph node cells over 3 d for the measurement of secreted cytokines by ELISA using the Ready-Set-Go Kit (eBioscience). IFN-γ ELISpots were carried out on both splenocytes and cells from the dLNs using a BD™ Mouse IFN-γ ELISPOT kit following the manufacturer’s protocol. For IFN-γ ELISpot assays, cells were plated on α-IFN-γ-coated hydrophobic filter plates (EMDmillipore) and restimulated for 24 h with either CD4+- (EYLNKIQNSLSTEWSPCSVT) or CD8+- (NYDNAGTNL) dominant peptides (1 μg ml−1) in IMDM with 10% FBS and 2% penicillin–streptomycin. The optical density of spots was measured with an ELISpot reader (BioSys). Serum α-CSP IgG on day 28 was measured using mouse α-circumsporozoite IgG ELISA (Alpha Diagnostic) using the manufacturer’s protocol. Serum IgG is reported as antibody activity units, which is a measure of IgG concentration.

Peptide array analysis
The entire sequence of the P. falciparum (isolate NF54) CSP P19597 CSP_PLAFO (UniProt) was spotted on custom CelluSpots™ microarrays as 265 distinct 20-mer peptides with an offset of one amino acid (Intravis). CelluSpots™ slides were blocked with Odyssey® blocking buffer (LI-COR) overnight at 4 °C, followed by 2 h incubation at room temperature with mice sera at 1:200 dilution in the same buffer. Slides were washed three times in PBS Tween 20 (0.02%). The spots were developed using a secondary goat anti-mouse antibody conjugated to IRDye®800CW (LI-COR) at 1:10,000 dilution in blocking buffer for 30 min at room temperature. Slides were washed three times in PBS Tween with a last wash in distilled water, after which they were dried in the dark at room temperature. Spots were imaged with the quantitative Odyssey® system (LI-COR), and spots were analysed with optical density measurements. Heat maps were generated using the clustered image maps miner (CIMminer) developed by the National Cancer Institute. Statistical analysis was performed for each spot between the groups using GraphPad Prism 5 software (GraphPad Software). Statistical differences were determined by one-way ANOVA using Bonferroni’s post hoc test and two spots were said to be statistically different if P ≤ 0.05.

Primary human hepatocyte collection and culture
For collection of human liver fragments, informed consent was obtained from patients undergoing a partial hepatectomy as part of their medical treatment at Service de Chirurgie Digestive, Hepato-Bilio-Pancreatique et Transplantation Hepatique, Hopital Pitie-Salpetriere, Paris, France. Collection and use of this material for the purposes of the study presented here were undertaken in accordance with French national ethical guidelines under Article L, 1121-1 of the Code de la Santé Publique. Collection and use of these tissues were also approved and performed in accordance with guidelines set by the ethics committee of the Centre Hospitalo-Universitaire Pitié-Salpêtrière, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris, France. Primary hepatocytes were isolated using a two-step collagenase perfusion as previously described51. Hepatocytes were seeded at a density of 8 × 104 cells per well in 96-well culture plates coated with rat tail collagen I (Becton Dickinson) and cultured at 37 °C, 5% CO2 in William’s medium E supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (Hyclone, Thermo), 2 mM L-glutamine, 100 U ml−1 penicillin, 100 µg ml−1 streptomycin, 10 µM hydrocortisone (Upjohn Laboratories SERB) and 50 µg ml−1 insulin.

P. falciparum sporozoite isolation
P. falciparum (NF54 strain) sporozoites were obtained from infected salivary glands of Anopheles stephensi 14–21 days after an infective blood meal (collaboration Department of Medical Microbiology, University Medical Centre, St Radboud, Nijmegen, The Netherlands). Infected salivary glands were removed by hand dissection, crushed in a potter and filtered through a 40 µm filter for sporozoite isolation (Cell Strainer, BD BioSciences). The sporozoites were counted using a disposable plastic microscope slide (KOVA).

P. falciparum sporozoite invasion assay
Sera to be tested for inhibitory activity were heat inactivated for 30 min at 56 °C. Serum was diluted in 100 µl/well of complete hepatocyte medium. Before infection, sporozoites were mixed with the serum dilutions for 20 min. Infection was carried out by loading 2.5 × 104 sporozoites in 100 μl of fresh medium containing the appropriate dilution of the serum to be tested onto the liver cells. The plates were then centrifuged at 1,600 rpm/5 min at room temperature, thus allowing parasites to settle onto the cells. After 3 h of infection corresponding to the invasion step of Plasmodium sporozoites, medium was changed for fresh medium, and this was also done every 2 d until day 5 after infection. At the end of the experiment, cultures were stopped and fixed with cold methanol and then processed for parasite immunostaining.

Parasite counting and size determination using high-content imaging
The number, size and shape of the parasites were determined using a CellInsight high-content screening platform (Thermo Fisher Scientific). The parasite immunostaining was done using a αPfHSP70 antibody raised in mice and a secondary anti-mouse antibody coupled to AlexaFluor 48852. Host-cell and parasite nuclei were labelled with 4′,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI). Thirty-seven images, representing almost the whole bottom surface area of a culture well in 96-well plates, were captured for analysis. Parasites were first identified based on their fluorescence intensity. This identity was further validated based on size and morphological (shape) criteria. The presence of DAPI-associated fluorescence in the selected objects allowed the final selection of the parasites and the rejection of false positives.

Data analysis
Graphing and statistical analysis of data were performed using Prism (V5; GraphPad). In general, pound signs represent statistical difference with respect to the vehicle (saline) or media-treated group, unless otherwise stated. Data were analysed with one-way ANOVA and Bonferroni test, α = 5 (***p ≤ 0.001; **p ≤ 0.01; *p ≤ 0.05), unless otherwise stated.