Abstract: Biological cells generate intricate structures by sculpting their membrane from within to actively sense and respond to external stimuli or to explore their environment1,2,3,4. Several pathogenic bacteria also provide examples of how localized forces strongly deform cell membranes from inside, leading to the invasion of neighbouring healthy mammalian cells5. Giant unilamellar vesicles have been successfully used as a minimal model system with which to mimic biological cells6,7,8,9,10,11, but the realization of a minimal system with localized active internal forces that can strongly deform lipid membranes from within and lead to dramatic shape changes remains challenging. Here we present a combined experimental and simulation study that demonstrates how self-propelled particles enclosed in giant unilamellar vesicles can induce a plethora of non-equilibrium shapes and active membrane fluctuations. Using confocal microscopy, in the experiments we explore the membrane response to local forces exerted by self-phoretic Janus microswimmers. To quantify dynamic membrane changes, we perform Langevin dynamics simulations of active Brownian particles enclosed in thin membrane shells modelled by dynamically triangulated surfaces. The most pronounced shape changes are observed at low and moderate particle loadings, with the formation of tether-like protrusions and highly branched, dendritic structures, whereas at high volume fractions globally deformed vesicle shapes are observed. The resulting state diagram predicts the conditions under which local internal forces generate various membrane shapes. A controlled realization of such distorted vesicle morphologies could improve the design of artificial systems such as small-scale soft robots and synthetic cells.

Main: Active or self-propelled particles (SPPs) have been shown to accumulate at hard surfaces12 and in regions with high concave curvature13 so that their activity leads to different spatial distributions compared to passive Brownian systems14,15. Giant unilamellar vesicles (GUVs) and biological cells represent soft confinements in which localized forces can deform the boundaries6,7,8,10,11. This may create a complex feedback loop between curvature-induced SPP accumulation, active force (swim pressure) generation and subsequent dynamic changes of vesicle shape. The possible occurrence of such a feedback loop raises questions about stationary and dynamic shapes, their transformation, activity and dependence on the number of SPPs. Simulation studies have predicted predominantly global vesicle shape changes, such as prolate vesicles with accumulation of SPPs at the poles16,17 in two dimensions, and prolate, oblate and stomatocyte shapes18 for floppy vesicles in three dimensions.

Here we realize and systematically characterize active vesicles by varying the number of SPPs (in experiments and simulations) and their propulsion strength (in simulations) for two different vesicle tensions. Our combined experimental and simulation study demonstrates the emergence of strongly deformed non-equilibrium shapes such as highly branched dendritic structures.

Activity-induced vesicle shapes
Self-propelled Janus colloids (half Pt-coated polystyrene) of diameter σ = 1.0 μm, which have no specific interactions with the membrane (both in the absence and presence of propulsion; Extended Data Fig. 1), are encapsulated in GUVs of 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine lipids (Methods). These SPPs are force- and torque-free14,15 and propel owing to diffusiophoretic forces with a velocity of vp, controlled by varying the fuel concentration of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) (Supplementary Information). When an SPP reaches the vesicle surface, it pushes against the membrane (Supplementary Video 1), and the response of the membrane opposes the propulsion force. This force is exerted on the membrane as long as the Janus particle does not reorient, which is characterized by its rotational diffusion time τr. The resulting membrane deformation, the elastic restoring force and the emerging complex and dynamic vesicle shapes are controlled by the SPP propulsion velocity vp, the number Np of SPPs, the membrane bending rigidity κc and the total tension λ = λp + λa, which consists of the passive tension λp and the active tension λa induced by SPPs. Three dimensionless numbers describe the importance of these parameters: the Péclet number Pe = vpσ/Dt (Dt is the translational diffusion coefficient), which indirectly measures the propulsion force, the SPP volume fraction ϕ and the reduced tension λ* = λR2/(kBT), where R is the vesicle radius, T is the temperature and kB is the Boltzmann constant.

To elucidate the physical mechanisms involved in the formation of complex non-equilibrium vesicle structures, mesoscopic simulations are performed. The in silico model consists of active Brownian particles enclosed by a dynamically triangulated membrane19. Bending elasticity, membrane fluidity and area conservation are taken into account, in some cases in combination with a volume constraint for the vesicle (Methods).

A series of experiments and simulations were performed to interrogate membrane dynamics and shape transitions for two different values of the passive membrane tension λp and various particle concentrations ϕ. In the experiments, because the density of the internal fluid is higher than that of the external fluid, the vesicles sediment to the bottom of the observation chamber, where they flatten and can easily be imaged by combined high-speed confocal and bright-field microscopy. Figure 1a–d shows time-lapse images of the dynamic response of a vesicle to the active particles at a low particle concentration (ϕ ≈ 4 × 10−4) and low tension (λp = 13 ± 7 nN m−1; all uncertainties indicate mean ± s.d.). The bending rigidity (κc = (18 ± 6)kBT) and passive tension of vesicles are estimated by the analysis of the membrane undulation modes6,20 (Methods). Even though the propulsion forces fp ≈ 0.1 pN (for vp = 15.0 ± 2.0 μm s−1, Pe = 33–39) of a single SPP are small, for low-tension vesicles these forces are sufficient to locally deform the membrane. Tether formation is typically initiated cooperatively (inset of Fig. 1a): as a few SPPs deform the membrane (Fig. 1b), additional SPPs can become trapped in this region of higher curvature, thereby increasing the local force on the membrane and forming a tether (Supplementary Video 1). A high degree of wrapping of SPPs by the membrane slows down particle movement considerably, as shown by the overlaid particle trajectories in the insets of Fig. 1c, d, because of membrane viscoelastic resistance and the reduction of SPP accessibility to the fuel. By contrast, for high membrane tension (λp = 25 ± 9 μN m−1), the same propulsion force is too weak to overcome the deformation energy cost for tether formation, as shown in Fig. 1g. In this case, the SPPs follow the membrane curvature and perform a circling motion (Supplementary Video 1) similar to that of rodents in a hamster wheel.

Fig. 1: Dynamic response of the lipid membrane at a low (flaccid) and high tension of vesicles to the encapsulated SPPs at different volume fractions ϕ.
figure1
a–d, Sequence of time-lapse two-dimensional confocal and bright-field microscopy images showing various membrane deformations from partial and full wrapping to tethering. a, Tether formation. b, The inset shows that a second particle enters an already existing tether. c–d, Other SPPs with partially and fully wrapped states, and subsequent budding (inset in d). The magenta boxes depict magnified views of particles that are either outside or in close proximity to the membrane. e, Tethers consisting of multiple active particles. The inset illustrates a cooperative chain-like packing of SPPs. f, Membrane curvature-mediated accumulation of SPPs. g, Dynamics of active particles in a high-tension vesicle, showing no tethering and the circular trajectory of an SPP near the membrane. h–j, Time-lapse images illustrating the shape change from a sphere to two twin vesicles connected by a tether. a, e–j, Simulation snapshots corroborating the experimental observations. We note that the degree of transparency of vesicle colour is varied to better visualize the SPPs inside GUVs. All scale bars are 10 μm.

Full size image
Further, in low-tension vesicles, increase in particle concentration (ϕ ≈ 3 × 10−3) leads to the formation of long tubular protrusions in which SPPs become tightly packed, as illustrated in Fig. 1e. The particles that are close to the neck of a tube can change their propulsion direction via rotational diffusion and move in or out of the protrusion (inset of Fig. 1e, Extended Data Fig. 2a–d). Moreover, changes in local membrane curvature induce pronounced clustering of SPPs and lead to a cooperative wrapping process. For example, a cluster of several particles (ten) generates increased local stress, so that very long tethers (≈200 μm) form and remain stable until the particles reorient and the tether retracts (Extended Data Figs. 2e-j).

For SPP concentrations of ϕ ≈ 10−2, many SPPs accumulate in regions of higher membrane curvature for near-spherical shapes, thereby inducing pronounced global membrane deformations; see Fig. 1f. There are two possible explanations for tether suppression and the preference for global shape changes: (i) the net propulsion force of individual particles decreases because of crowding and of their tendency to cluster owing to diffusiophoretic attraction14,15 and (ii) activity-induced membrane tension prevents local deformations of the vesicle (see sections ‘State diagram of active-vesicle shapes’ and ‘Shape fluctuations’). At high SPP concentrations (for example, ϕ ≈ 1.9 × 10−1), the vesicle can transform into bola-like and prolate shapes (Fig. 1h, i, Supplementary Video 2), with satellites connected by thin particle-laden tethers (Fig. 1j). The selected snapshots in Fig. 1, which show tethers (Fig. 1b), dendrites (Fig. 1e) and bolas and dumbbells, reveal the excellent correspondence between experiments and simulations. Supplementary Videos 3–5 demonstrate the dynamic formation of a few vesicle shapes for different Pe and ϕ values.

State diagram of active-vesicle shapes
The main focus of our simulations is the investigation of the effect of propulsion strength on the vesicle shape, and the construction of a state diagram for flaccid active vesicles (passive tension of λp ≈ 2 × 10−8 N m−1), where properties are predominantly determined by bending elasticity. The full state diagram as a function of Pe and volume fraction ϕ is shown in Fig. 2a for a vesicle that can freely adjust its internal volume at a fixed membrane area. The shape diagram from simulations with a volume constraint for a reduced volume of v = 0.8 is qualitatively similar; see Extended Data Fig. 3. Three distinct regimes are identified. (i) The ‘tethering’ regime, with long and thin tethers originating from a mother vesicle, occurs for large enough Pe and small-to-moderate ϕ. With increasing ϕ, the number of tethers first increases, as each SPP pulls its own tether, and then decreases, as several SPPs tend to cluster in one tether. Here, an interesting feature is the filling of the tethers by additional SPPs and the formation of large SPP clusters in small satellite vesicles at the end of the tethers. (ii) The ‘fluctuating’ regime for sufficiently small Pe is characterized by quasi-spherical vesicle shapes and the absence of tethers. (iii) The ‘bola/prolate’ regime occurs for large Pe and ϕ and displays strong global shape changes, with the formation of two or more satellite vesicles.

Fig. 2: State diagram of various membrane structures.
figure2
a, Simulated diagram for different Pe and ϕ values in the three regimes: tethering (blue symbols), fluctuating (red symbols) and bola/prolate (green symbols) vesicle shapes. The points corresponding to the snapshots have black outlines. All simulations are without a volume constraint and with a passive tension of λp ≈ 2 × 10−8 N m−1, mimicking a flaccid vesicle. The black lines correspond to theoretical estimates of the tethering boundaries with γ = 0.25 and c0 = 0 (see Methods). At low ϕ, ⟨Np,c⟩ = 1, β = 1 and σcl = σ are used, whereas at large ϕ, β = 0.54 and ⟨Np,c⟩ are computed directly from simulations (Extended Data Fig. 4). b, The experimental shape diagram summarizes the observed vesicle shapes induced by the activity of SPPs for different ϕ and fixed Pe. c, High-tension vesicles are not showing any noticeable deformations. All scale bars are 10 μm.

Full size image
The phase boundary between tethered and non-tethered vesicle shapes in Fig. 2a can be understood theoretically from the balance between the pushing forces of particle clusters, membrane curvature elasticity, and passive and active membrane tension (Methods). To pull a tether21,22, the force fp,c = βNp,c fp of a cluster of Np,c SPPs with diameter σcl ≈ σ⟨Np,c⟩1/3 (where β ≤ 1 is the cluster cooperativity coefficient, which measures orientation alignment) must overcome the elastic membrane force ftether=πσcl(λp+λa+2κc/σ2cl−4κcc0/σcl). For a single SPP (Np = 1), this estimate yields Pec ≈ 140 (for κc = 20kBT, λp = 0 and spontaneous curvature c0 = 0), in good agreement with the simulated phase boundary in Fig. 2a for small ϕ. Higher particle loadings induce two effects: (i) the formation of oriented particle clusters with average size ⟨Np,c⟩ = αNp that increases linearly with Np (or equivalently ϕ), where α is a monotonically increasing function of Pe (see Extended Data Fig. 4) and (ii) an active tension due to the internal swim pressure23, approximated as λa = γNpfp/(8πR) via the Young–Laplace equation (γ < 1 is the active-tension weight, as not all SPPs exert a force perpendicular to the membrane). For λp ≈ 0, this implies that the bending rigidity term in ftether decreases as N−1/3p, whereas the active-tension term increases as N4/3p. Therefore, Pec for tether formation first decreases at moderate ϕ owing to SPP clustering, and then increases at large ϕ because of the increasing λa, suppressing tether formation (see Fig. 2a). It is noteworthy that the theoretical phase boundaries in Fig. 2a agree very well with the simulation results, which confirms that the relevant mechanisms are captured correctly.

Figure 2b demonstrates that the experimental results are in good qualitative agreement with the simulations, although the simulations exclude the details of the diffusiophoretic particle propulsion and hydrodynamic interactions. Interestingly, for equivalent vesicle conformations, the experimental Pe is typically smaller by a factor of 4–5 than that obtained in the simulations. This could be due to a local spontaneous membrane curvature induced by a local change in lipid concentration, to differences in membrane viscoelasticity or to changes in reorientation time because of particle wrapping by the membrane in the experimental system. We demonstrate that a sufficiently low reduced volume v lowers the critical value of Pe for the formation of complex tethers. For instance, tethers and daughter vesicles are observed at Pe > 100 for v ≈ 1.0 (Fig. 2a) and at Pe ≈ 100 for v = 0.8, whereas tether-like protrusions appear already at Pe = 50 for v = 0.6 (Extended Data Fig. 3). At high particle loadings, vesicle topology changes were observed in the experiments (Extended Data Fig. 5, Supplementary Information), whereas topological changes were not allowed in the simulations (see Methods). We note that in our out-of-equilibrium system, shape and tension can vary dynamically, as demonstrated in Supplementary Video 6, where a cluster of fast-moving (vp ≈ 21 μm s−1) SPPs leads to the formation of a daughter vesicle, resulting in an increase of tension of the mother vesicle through the active tension induced by SPPs. Figure 2c shows that for a high passive membrane tension (λp ≈ 25 ± 9 μN m−1), no visible effects of the activity on the macroscopic vesicle shape are observed under conditions in which flaccid vesicles would show dendritic structures.

Shape fluctuations
In the fluctuating vesicle regime, membrane fluctuation amplitudes are strongly enhanced owing to SPPs compared to the passive case, as demonstrated in Fig. 3a for the experiments. This is reflected both in the larger amplitudes of undulation modes at low mode numbers corresponding to long wavelengths and in the full-width at half-maximum (FWHM) of the probability density function (PDF) P(Δr) of the distance Δr between the instantaneous membrane contour and its average position (see inset of Fig. 3a). The simulation results in Fig. 3b show that the FWHM of the PDF increases roughly linearly with Pe. The fluctuations of active vesicles with a volume constraint (with reduced volume close to unity) are smaller than those of vesicles without a volume constraint (Fig. 3b), which can be traced back to the intrinsic membrane tension.

Fig. 3: Shape fluctuation spectra for both passive and active vesicles.
figure3
a, Experimental shape fluctuation spectra as a function of mode number  ℓ for GUVs that enclose passive and active colloids with volume fraction ϕ ≈ 0.009. Inset, experimental PDFs of the radial position of the fluctuating contour from its average position for low-tension passive and active vesicles. Error bars indicate the mean ± s.d. of three independent measurements. b, Normalized FWHM of P(ΔR) for different Pe and ϕ with and without volume constraint (VC) from three-dimensional simulations. Inset, PDFs of the radial position of the fluctuating contour from its average position for the case with volume constraint (0.96 < v < 0.99) and ϕ = 0.06. c–d, Simulation spectra for vesicles with volume constraint (0.96 < v < 0.99) for volume fractions ϕ = 0.06 (c) and ϕ = 0.36 (d) and various Pe values. The tension of the passive vesicle is found to be λp ≈ 6 × 10−7 N m−1. The insets show the exponents obtained from power-law fits to ℓα, measured in the ranges 3 ≤ ℓ ≤ 12 for α1 and 35 ≤ ℓ ≤ 80 for α2.

Full size image
The undulation amplitudes ⟨a2ℓ⟩ in Fig. 3 show a very good agreement of experimental (Fig. 3a) and simulation (Figs. 3 c, d) results over the entire range of mode numbers ℓ. The spectra can be characterized by two power laws ℓα for small and large ℓ values. For passive vesicles with a volume constraint, we find an exponent of α ≈ −1 for small ℓ (tension-dominated regime) and α ≈ −3 for larger ℓ (bending-dominated regime), in agreement with earlier observations20. For active vesicles, the activity leads to a very pronounced enhancement of the small-ℓ modes, with exponent α ≈ −4, whereas the bending-dominated regime remains essentially unaffected. We also observe a similar activity-induced power-law regime in our two-dimensional vesicle model, which applies in the limit of strongly flattened vesicle shapes, as shown in Extended Data Fig. 6 (see also Supplementary Information). With increasing ϕ, the density and thickness of the particle layer increase, generating larger active forces on the membrane. This leads to an increase in the fluctuation amplitudes at large ϕ (see Fig. 3c, d), which is reflected in a more negative exponent α in the fluctuation spectrum (see Fig. 3d). However, this increase is moderate because it is opposed by a larger induced membrane tension. We note that the enhancement of activity-induced membrane undulations in our entirely synthetic system is in agreement with previously reported experiments for vesicles with light-activated membrane pumps24, bacteria encapsulated25 in GUVs, and for red blood cells with ATP-dependent cytoskeletal activity26.

Our study shows how the interplay of local active forces, membrane elasticity and viscosity can give rise to a plethora of novel vesicle shapes, which do not exist in equilibrium systems. Notably, further analysis of the strongly distorted vesicle shapes can provide a framework to study non-equilibrium thermodynamic and rheological responses of bilayer membranes when the membrane composition becomes more complex.

Methods
Production of lipids and vesicles
All chemicals, unless otherwise specified, were used as received. 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (DOPC) and the fluorescent 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3- phosphoethanolamine-N-(lissamine rhodamine B sulfonyl) (ammonium salt) (Liss Rhod PE; excitation wavelength 561 nm), both in chloroform, were obtained from Avanti Polar Lipids (Alabaster, AL). Both non-fluorescently labelled DOPC and fluorescently labelled Liss Rhod PE were diluted in chloroform to 12 mg ml−1 and 0.2 mg ml−1, respectively, and these stock solutions were stored at −20° C before use. To prepare the lipids in oil solution (LOS), 0.62 g and 0.19 g of DOPC and Liss Rhod PE stock solution (15 mM and 0.15 mM of DOPC and Liss Rhod PE, respectively) were added to a glass vial (20 ml; Infochroma AG). The chloroform was then evaporated under a gentle N2 gas flow. The lipids were further dried at low pressure in a vacuum desiccator for 3 h to remove any traces of chloroform. Next, 4.4 g (5 ml) of paraffin oil (0.879 g cm−3; EGT Chemie AG) was added, and the lipids were dissolved overnight in an oven at 55° C.

Vesicles were prepared using the modified protocol of Natsume et al.27, as schematically depicted in Extended Data Fig. 1a. To maintain a density difference between the interior and exterior of the vesicles, the inner and outer aqueous solutions contained 100 mM of sucrose (Sigma-Aldrich) and 100 mM glucose (Apollo Scientific), respectively. The sucrose and glucose solutions were filtered before use with a 0.2-μm Acrodisc filter (Pall Corporation). 600 μl of pre-heated LOS was then added to the 100 μl inner aqueous solution and the two phases were thoroughly mixed by tapping with a 200-μl micropipette for 2 min, giving rise to a water-in-oil emulsion that appeared turbid by eye. In a second 2-ml Eppendorf tube, a lipid-saturated water–oil interface was formed by depositing 200 μl of pre-heated LOS on top of 500 μL of 100 mM glucose solution, the outer aqueous solution. Next, 90–100 μl of the top layer of the emulsion was transferred to the pre-equilibrated interface. The droplets were then transferred through the interface by centrifugation (Eppendorf, 5415D) of the Eppendorf tube for 2 min at 200g. The lower centrifugation speed was found to minimize the presence of undesired lipid aggregates in the outer aqueous solution of the vesicle suspension. After centrifugation, the oil phase on top of the aqueous phase was carefully removed with a micropipette. The density difference between the inner and outer aqueous phases ensured that the vesicles had accumulated at the bottom of the tube. The resulting dispersion contained vesicles with sizes ranging between 10 and 80 μm. Extended Data Fig. 1b shows a confocal image of vesicles with a different tension. This method gives an array of vesicles with differing tension, enabling us to explore the effect of this parameter.

Although not mentioned in the literature, the solubility of lipids in different oils (for example, mineral and paraffin oil) at room temperature is known to be poor. Confocal microscope images confirmed the presence of fluorescent aggregates of lipids at room temperature. We found that the solubility of lipids in paraffin oil is good at an elevated temperature (55° C). Cooling the LOS before the formation of the vesicles resulted in the presence of non-uniformities in the vesicle membrane, such as random aggregates of lipids attached to the outer lipid layer of the vesicles. It is therefore essential to keep the LOS at 55° C until use and to minimize the time required for the formation of vesicles.

Fabrication of self-propelling particles
We synthesized polystyrene particles that were sterically stabilized with poly-vinylpyrrolidone (molecular weight Mwt = 40,000 kg mol−1) and fluorescently labelled with rhodamine isothiocyanate, using the method of Song et al.28. After the synthesis, the particles were washed several times and re-dispersed into Milli-Q water. The particle size was 1.0 μm with a size polydispersity of 5%, as determined using static light scattering and scanning electron microscopy.

To obtain half Pt-coated Janus PS particles, first a monolayer was deposited on a glass slide. Prior to the deposition, the glass slide was rinsed several times with acetone and ethanol, dried under compressed air, and subsequently plasma-cleaned for 30 s at high radio frequency level (Harrick Plasma). Then, 100 μl of dispersion of 0.5 wt% fluorescent PS particles was coated on the slide using a spin-coater (model WS-400B-6NPP Lite; Laurell Technologies) operating in a three-step program (30 s at 400 rpm, 90 s at 1,000 rpm, 20 s at 4,500 rpm). Platinum was then sputter-coated (Safematic, CCU-010 HV Compact Coating) vertically over the monolayer to a final thickness of 5–6 nm. Finally, particles were released from the glass slide by sonication (Bandelin, Sonorex) for approximately 2 min and collected by sedimentation29.

Next, particles were washed 3–4 times by sedimentation with deionized water to remove small freely floating Pt flakes and unwanted clusters of particles, and then the suspension was diluted to the desired concentration. Before the encapsulation of particles into vesicles, the Janus particles were tested for self-propulsion by diluting the particles in suspensions of varying hydrogen peroxide (BASF) concentrations (0.5–6.0 vol%); see Supplementary Information.

Encapsulation of SPPs
For a typical experiment, 50 μl of Janus particle dispersion of known concentration was mixed with 50 μl of 0.2 M sucrose solution in a 2-ml Eppendorf tube. The composition of this inner aqueous solution could be varied, but the final sucrose concentration was always maintained at 100 mM to prevent osmotic effects across the lipid membrane. Both passive colloids and Janus SPPs were successfully encapsulated into the vesicles, as shown in Extended Data Fig. 1c–f. A combined confocal and bright-field microscope image reveals the two-faced nature of the coated particles (Extended Data Fig. 1e, f), with the fluorescent part appearing bright and the platinum-coated part appearing dark. We note that all the resulting vesicles may not get the same loading of Janus particles.

These encapsulated passive PS Janus particles neither showed a specific interaction with the lipid membrane nor did they induce a substantial change in the vesicle’s shape due to mere confinement of the particles, as shown in Extended Data Fig. 1c–f. Moreover, time-lapsed confocal microscope images confirm that the passive particles (that is, without H2O2) do not show any specific interactions with the membrane, thus inducing no shape change in vesicles. At low particle loadings, vesicles showed the expected thermal fluctuations of the membrane, of the same intensity as particle-free vesicles, whereas at very high particle loadings, thermal fluctuations were suppressed owing to steric interactions between the membrane and densely packed particles (see Extended Data Fig. 1g–i).

Imaging
We followed the particle dynamics and the membrane fluctuations using a confocal scanning laser microscope (Nikon Eclipse Ti-E inverted microscope with a VT-iSIM confocal scan head, Visitec), a Leica SP8 (Leica Microsystems) confocal scanning laser microscope and a Nikon inverted fluorescence microscope equipped with a Hamamatsu ORCA-Flash4.0 CMOS camera and a high-numerical-aperture (NA) oil objective lens (60×, NA = 1.4; 100×, NA = 1.45). We acquired images with a frame rate in the range of 5–100 frames per second. We acquired a total of 2,500–4,000 images per vesicle for bending rigidity and tension measurements of vesicles by shape fluctuation analysis (see Methods section ‘Analysis of shape fluctuations of passive and active vesicles’). The brightness and contrast of the images were adjusted using Fiji imaging software (https://imagej.net/Fiji).

Analysis of shape fluctuations of passive and active vesicles
Vesicle shape fluctuation analysis is a standard technique to extract mechanical membrane properties such as bending rigidity and tension20,30,31. Fluctuation-mode amplitudes {aℓ} for two-dimensional (2D) sections of the vesicle contour, extracted from a contour analysis of experimental and simulation snapshots, are obtained by decomposing the local membrane position r(θm) as

aℓ=1n∑m=0n−1r(θm)exp(−2πiℓmn)
(1)
where ℓ is the mode number and θm = 2πm/n. In thermal equilibrium, the fluctuation spectra for 2D sections of the vesicle contour are given by20,30,31,32

⟨|aℓ|2⟩=kBT2λpL⎛⎝⎜1qℓ−1λpκc+q2ℓ−−−−−−√⎞⎠⎟
(2)
where L = 2π⟨R⟩ is the section circumference and qℓ = ℓ/⟨R⟩ is the wave number.

For the analysis of the experimental data, a custom-made Matlab program was implemented to detect the membrane contour. First, all images are pre-processed to remove the background noise using a Matlab filter. Second, the membrane contour is detected by drawing a series of radial lines at angles θm, and the contour positions are determined by the intensity maximum along the radial lines using a threshold value (see Supplementary Information and Supplementary Fig. 1). The identified positions are transformed from Cartesian coordinates (xm, ym), m = 0,…, n − 1 into polar coordinates r(θm) with respect to the centre of mass of the contour. For the analysis of three-dimensional (3D) simulations, the values of r(θm) at the vesicle cross-section are obtained by local surface interpolation for angles θm within the section plane. For 2D simulations, the radial positions of membrane vertices are directly used in the fluctuation analysis.

For both simulations and experiments, we determine the average radius ⟨R⟩ of the 2D contours. The complex Fourier amplitudes are evaluated for the membrane position field (equation (1)) using the open-source FFTW library33 and averaged over different time frames. We note that this analysis of fluctuation modes is performed for both passive and active vesicles. We also quantify the deviations of vesicle shape from a sphere by measuring the PDF P(Δr) of the distance Δr from its average shape for both passive and active vesicles; see insets in Fig. 3a, b. The PDFs of both passive and active vesicles show Gaussian-like distributions, in which active vesicles exhibit a larger standard deviation (that is, stronger membrane fluctuations) than passive vesicles.

We extract both the bending rigidity and the tension of the membrane by fitting the experimental fluctuation spectra with equation (2), yielding a membrane tension of λp = 13 ± 7 nN m−1 and a bending rigidity of κc = (18 ± 6)kBT for low-tension vesicles and λp = 25 ± 9 μN m−1, κc = (21 ± 5)kBT for high-tension vesicles.

Triangulated membrane model of a 3D vesicle
A lipid membrane is modelled by a dynamically triangulated network of Nv linked vertices19,34. The links are represented by a tethering potential34,35 expressed as a combination of the attractive (Uatt) and repulsive (Urep) parts

Uatt(r)={kbexp[1/(lc0−r)]lmax−r0ifr>lc0ifr≤lc0,
(3)
Urep(r)={kbexp[1/(r−lc1)]r−lmin0ifr<lc1ifr≥lc1,
(4)
where kb is the bond stiffness, lmin and lmax are the minimum and maximum bond lengths, respectively, and lc1 and lc0 are the potential cutoff lengths. Thus, membrane vertices can move freely in the range [lc1, lc0].

The bending elasticity is represented by the Helfrich curvature energy36 as

Ubend=2κc∮Ac¯2dA,
(5)
where κc is the bending rigidity, c¯=(c1+c2)/2 is the local mean curvature and A is the total membrane area. The bending energy is discretized on a triangulated network37,38 as

Ubend=∑i=1Nv2κcc¯2iANv=κc2∑i=1Nv1σi⎡⎣ni⋅⎛⎝∑j(i)σijrijrij⎞⎠⎤⎦2,
(6)
where c¯i is the mean curvature at vertex i with area A/Nv; ni is the unit normal of the membrane at vertex i; σi=(∑j(i)σijrij)/4 is the area of a dual cell of vertex i; j(i) stands for all neighbouring vertices linked to vertex i; and σij = rij(cotθ1 + cotθ2)/2 is the length of the bond in a dual lattice with angles θ1 and θ2 at the vertices opposite to the shared bond vector rij. More details about the discretization of the Helfrich curvature energy can be found in refs. 34,37,39.

Furthermore, local area conservation of the triangles in the vesicle discretization is imposed by a soft harmonic potential given by

Uloc.area=kl2∑i=1Nt(Ai−A′)2A′,
(7)
where k1, A′ = A/Nt and Ai are the local-area conservation coefficient, the desired and the instantaneous local areas, respectively. The sum runs over all Nt = 2(Nv – 2) triangles within the network. In several simulations, a constraint on the total vesicle volume V has been employed as

Uvolume=kv(V−V0)22V0,
(8)
where kv is the volume constraint coefficient and V0 is the desired total volume.

The dynamics of membrane vertices is modelled by the Langevin equation,

mr¨i=−∇iUtot−γmr˙i+2γmkBT−−−−−−−√ξi(t),
(9)
where m is the vertex mass, r¨i and r˙i are the second and first derivatives of particle positions ri, ∇i is the spatial derivative at the position of vertex i and Utot is the sum of all interaction potentials. The friction coefficient γm mimics the embedding of the membrane into a viscous fluid through the free-draining approximation. ξi(t) is a Gaussian random process with ⟨ξi(t)⟩ = 0 and ⟨ξi(t)ξj(t′)⟩ = Id δijδ(t − t′) that represents membrane thermal fluctuations (where Id is the d × d identity matrix and d is the dimension). The positions and velocities of all particles are integrated using the velocity Verlet algorithm40.

Membrane fluidity: dynamic triangulation
The membrane model described above with a fixed network connectivity does not include membrane fluidity, in which particles can diffuse within the membrane plane. To model membrane fluidity, the bond shared by each pair of adjacent triangles is flipped to connect the two previously unconnected vertices34,38. The flipping procedure is performed with a time frequency of ω. During the flipping procedure, every bond in the membrane network is flipped with probability ψ, where the acceptance of bond flipping follows a Monte Carlo algorithm. In the Monte Carlo algorithm, changes in the tethering (that is, ΔUatt + ΔUrep) and local area (that is, ΔUloc.area) energies due to attempted bond flipping are computed. Bond flipping is accepted with a probability of exp[−(ΔUatt + ΔUrep + ΔUloc.area)/(kBT)] if energetically unfavourable and is always accepted if energetically favourable. We note that a change in the bending energy is omitted here for numerical efficiency, as bond flipping has a negligible effect on the local membrane curvature. The resulting membrane fluidity for selected parameters ω and ψ can be characterized by a 2D membrane viscosity; see refs. 35,41 for details. Extended Data Table 1 outlines the parameters for the 3D simulations.

Semiflexible-ring model of a 2D vesicle
A 2D cross-section (or a cut) of a vesicle is modelled by a semiflexible polymer ring. The ring is composed of Nr beads and characterized by a perimeter length of 2πR. The beads interact by bond, bending and area-constraint potentials; however, no repulsion between beads is applied. The bond energy controls the length of the polymer ring both locally and globally, and is represented by a harmonic bond potential

Us=ks2∑i=0Nr−1(|ri|−ls)2
(10)
Here, ks is the spring constant, ls = 2Rsin(π/Nr) is the equilibrium bond length, and ri is the bond vector from monomer i to i + 1. The spring constant ks is chosen sufficiently large, such that changes in the ring perimeter length are less than 5%.

The curvature (or bending) energy

Ub=κ′ls∑i=0Nr−1(1−cosθi)
(11)
controls the membrane deformation in two dimensions. Here, κ′ is the 2D bending rigidity and θi is the angle between bond vectors ri and ri+1. Finally, the area compression energy

UA=kA2(A−A0)2
(12)
controls the area enclosed by the polymer ring, which mimics volume conservation of a vesicle in three dimensions. Here, kA is the bulk modulus, and A and A0 are the instantaneous and the target ring areas, respectively. Similarly to the 3D simulations, the dynamics of deformable rings is governed by the Langevin equation (9) in two dimensions. Extended Data Table 2 summarizes the parameters for the 2D simulations.

Model of SPPs
Self-propelled Janus particles are modelled by active Brownian particles (ABPs) without hydrodynamic interactions. Each ABP experiences a propulsive force fp, such that the average propulsive velocity of an ABP can be estimated as ⟨vp⟩ = fp/γp, where γp = 3πηfσ is the friction coefficient for ABPs with a diameter σ and ηf is the fluid dynamic viscosity. The propulsive force fpei is added to the Langevin dynamics in equation (9), where ei is the unit orientation vector of the i-th ABP. In addition, the orientation vector is subject to a random rotation following the equation42,43 e˙i=ζi×ei, where ζi(t) is a Gaussian random process with ⟨ζi(t)⟩ = 0 and ⟨ζi(t)ζj(t′)⟩ = 2DrId δijδ(t − t′) with rotational diffusion coefficient Dr of an ABP. Dr is related to the ABP size σ and its translational diffusion Dt = kBT/γp as Dt = Drσ2/3. The activity of ABPs is characterized by the dimensionless Péclet number Pe = σvp/Dt.

ABPs repel each other with the repulsive part of the 12-6 Lennard–Jones (LJ) potential given by

Upair(r)={ϵ[(rpcr)12−2(rpcr)6]0ifr<2–√6rpcifr≥2–√6rpc,
(13)
where ϵ is the strength of the LJ potential and rpc is a characteristic length of repulsion. Thus, for ABPs we set rpc=σ. Similarly, ABPs are also repelled by membrane vertices, and this interaction is described by the repulsive part of the LJ potential with rpc=0.5σ. The ABP parameters used in the simulations can be found in Extended Data Tables 1, 2.

Analytical prediction for the onset of tether formation
Tether formation from vesicles by externally pulled passive colloidal particles has been studied intensively21,22. We adopt here a simplified version of the theoretical description of this process to tether formation by several active particles inside a vesicle. Tether formation occurs through the propulsion force fp exerted by a single particle or through the force

fp,c=βNp,cfp=βNp,cPekBTσ
(14)
exerted by a cluster of Np,c particles on the membrane. Here, β ≤ 1 is the cluster cooperativity coefficient, which measures orientation alignment of the propulsion directions.

We consider a membrane with bending rigidity κc and spontaneous curvature c0. The propulsion force must overcome an elastic membrane force

ftether=πσcl(λ+2κcσ2cl−4κcc0σcl)
(15)
to pull a tether of a diameter σcl, which represents the effective cluster size. Here, the membrane tension λ contains contributions from both the passive (equilibrium) tension of the vesicle, λp, and the tension induced by the particle activity, λa; that is, λ = λp + λa. For vesicles containing many SPPs, tether formation can thus be enhanced by cluster formation and spontaneous membrane curvature, and be suppressed by membrane tension.

In the stationary state, a tether radius is predicted by minimizing the elastic energy of a vesicle with N tethers as

Rt=πκcfp,c
(16)
with a fixed membrane area Atot = 4πR2 + 4πNRtLt and tether length Lt. We note that this radius is independent of the number of tethers.

To predict the boundary of tether formation in the state diagram by equation (15), estimates of the cluster size Np,c and the activity-induced tension are required. We estimate the average cluster size ⟨Np,c⟩ from the simulated distributions of cluster sizes illustrated in Extended Data Fig. 4a. Our simulation data for Pe = 100 show that

⟨Np,c⟩≈αNp,
(17)
where α is a monotonically increasing function of Pe, with α ≈ 1.9 × 10−2 for Pe = 100. Then, the cluster size is assumed to be σcl = σ(⟨Np,c⟩/νcl)1/3, where νcl = 0.65 represents the packing fraction of the cluster. The active membrane tension λa originates from the swim pressure that the particles exert on the membrane. It can be estimated through the Young–Laplace equation as

λa=γNpfp8πR,
(18)
where γ ≤ 1 is the active-tension weight, which takes into account that not all SPPs exert a force perpendicular to the membrane. As a result, the force balance implies a critical Péclet number for tether formation of

Pec=πσkBT(σclλp+2κcσcl−4κcc0)(β⟨Np,c⟩−γNp8σclR)−1.
(19)
Extended Data Figure 7 compares phase boundaries calculated using equation (19) for various values of λp, β and c0.