Abstract: Organic solar cells based on bulk heterojunctions (BHJs) are attractive energy‐conversion devices that can generate electricity from absorbed sunlight by dissociating excitons and collecting charge carriers. Recent breakthroughs attained by development of nonfullerene acceptors result in significant enhancement in power conversion efficiency (PCEs) exceeding 17%. However, most of researches have focused on pursuing high efficiency of small‐area (<1 cm2) unit cells fabricated usually with spin coating. For practical application of organic photovoltaics (OPVs) from lab‐scale unit cells to industrial products, it is essential to develop efficient technologies that can extend active area of devices with minimized loss of performance and ensured operational stability. In this progress report, an overview of recent advancements in materials and processing technologies is provided for transitioning from small‐area laboratory‐scale devices to large‐area industrial scale modules. First, development of materials that satisfy requirements of high tolerability in active layer thickness and large‐area adaptability is introduced. Second, morphology control using various coating techniques in a large active area is discussed. Third, the recent research progress is also underlined for understanding mechanisms of OPV degradation and studies for improving device long‐term stability along with reliable evaluation procedures.

Introduction: Organic photovoltaics (OPVs) based on bulk heterojunctions (BHJs) have attracted intensive research interest as renewable, clean, and nonfossil energy sources because they enable the easy fabrication of lightweight and flexible devices by solution processing at low cost compared with their inorganic counterparts. The first breakthrough in OPV technology was achieved by realizing BHJ active layers with nanoscale bicontinuous network structures of electron donor (D) and acceptor (A) materials; this structure enables efficient exciton separation at the D–A interface.[1] The development of push–pull‐type donor polymers has effectively extended the light absorption range of OPVs into the near‐infrared (NIR) region, which has ultimately led to substantial improvements in power conversion efficiency (PCE) to greater than 10%. In particular, highly crystalline donor polymers such as PffBT4T‐2OD substantially improved charge‐transport properties, enabling OPV devices with a BHJ film thickness greater than 200 nm to operate.[2] Historically, fullerene derivatives have been dominantly used as acceptors in OPVs because of their excellent electron‐accepting and transporting properties and because they can be prepared with a morphology optimized for efficient charge‐carrier generation and transport.[3, 4] However, despite such promising characteristics, OPVs based on fullerene derivatives have drawbacks of limited light‐absorption properties, poor energy‐level tunability, and poor morphological and/or photochemical stability.[5, 6] Over the past several years, tremendous efforts have been directed toward the development of nonfullerene‐based OPVs to overcome these limitations. The advantages of nonfullerene acceptors over fullerenes include easily tunable energy levels, which enables OPVs to achieve substantially higher open‐circuit voltages (VOCs) than conventional fullerene‐based devices.[7] In addition, nonfullerene acceptors enable better light absorption properties and therefore generate higher photocurrents than fullerene derivatives.[8] Furthermore, nonfullerene acceptors with appropriate molecular tailoring can provide chemically stable photoactive materials, potentially enhancing long‐term device stability.[5] Recent breakthroughs realized through the development of small molecular nonfullerene acceptors have resulted in remarkable enhancements in the PCEs of single‐junction OPVs to greater than 17%, which demonstrates the potential for the large‐scale manufacture of OPVs.[9]

When translating photovoltaic technology from laboratory to commercial products, low cost, high PCE, and high stability are considered to be three key metrics, the golden triangle.[10] Levelized cost of energy (LCOE) is lowered by increasing a PCE or lifetime of solar cells.[10] Moreover, energy return on energy invested (EROI), which can be calculated by the ratio of a lifetime to the energy payback time (EPBT) (EROI = Lifetime/EPBT), is increased by increasing a PCE or lifetime.[11] Low LCOE and high increasing EROI reflect the cost competitiveness and potential attractiveness of the PV technology. Extending active area of solar cells is of fundamental importance for commercialization of PV technologies to increase the power output within a limited PCE of the device. For the practical transition of OPV technology from lab‐scale research to cost‐effective industrial products, it is important to develop technologies for transferring small‐area device performance to large‐area modules, which should be accompanied by good operational stability of OPVs. However, compared with the rapid increase of OPV cell‐based efficiency, the large‐area OPVs exhibited a much lower efficiency. Most OPVs with active areas larger than 1 cm2 have shown an efficiency of 10% or lower. One of the reasons for such a large performance gap between small‐area cells and large‐area modules is the strong influence of the coating method on the BHJ morphology.[12-14] The spin coating method is commonly used for fabricating small‐area cells; however, it is inappropriate for large‐area module manufacturing. The disadvantages of spin coating are becoming more significant as substrate size increases and solution material costs rise. Large substrates cannot be easily spun at a sufficiently high rate. Spin coating is inefficient in its material usage. Typically, the actual material usage in a spin coating process is very low (at around 10% or less), with the rest being flung off the side and wasted. In addition, spin coating is an inherently batch process and therefore it has a relatively low throughput compared to continuous roll‐to‐roll processes.[15] Therefore, alternative coating techniques such as slot‐die coating, blade coating, and spray coating are necessary to produce large‐area OPV devices. Figure 1a shows the trend of the high performing small‐ and large‐area OPVs fabricated with various coating methods. Achieving an optimal BHJ morphology in a large‐area device necessitates the development of materials and processing techniques that can form an optimal BHJ morphology when the coating method is switched. Furthermore, the stability of OPVs should be considered in order to enable their practical application and, in particular, a method to evaluate the long‐term stability of large‐area OPVs under actual operating conditions should be developed. Figure 1b,c shows stability test time reported in the literature longer than 700 h as a function of PCE of small‐area OPV cells (Figure 1b) and large‐area OPV modules (Figure 1c). 

There is a comprehensive review of the fundamental requirements of photoactive layer materials and interface layer materials toward commercialization which are high PCE, thickness‐insensitive property, low toxicity, low cost, simple fabrication process, and high stability.[16] Another review paper dealt with thick active layers, module designs, and large‐area printing methods.[17] Our progress report highlights material, process, and stability issues arisen with scaling‐up of active area. In this report, we survey recent progress in the development of materials and processing technologies and improvement of long‐term stability for transitioning from small‐area laboratory‐scale devices to large‐area industrial‐scale modules (Figure 1d). First, we introduce organic active materials that satisfy the requirements of high tolerance of a wide range of active layer thicknesses and large‐area adaptability. We next discuss morphology control using various coating techniques for a large active area and introduce the corresponding research advances. Third, we addressed stability issues of OPV materials and devices arisen regardless of the device size and then discussed degradation modes which are particularly issued in large‐area all solution processable OPV modules. Finally, we provide an outlook and perspectives for the future development of large‐area OPVs for realizing industrial‐scale practical production.

Main: 2 Organic Active Materials Applicable to Large‐Area BHJ Films
Most OPV small‐area cells show optimal performance when the thickness of their active layer is ≈100 nm because the OPV materials tend to have an intrinsically low charge‐carrier mobility and strong exciton binding energy of organic materials compared with inorganic photovoltaic materials.[18, 19] Fill factors (FFs) of high‐efficiency OPVs usually decrease substantially when the active layer thickness is greater than 100 nm because the electric field intensity is diminished. This restriction on active layer thicknesses introduces issues related to the scaling up of solution‐processed OPVs because thin films on rough substrates are susceptible to point defects in the device; with increasing active area, these defects have an increasingly adverse effect on performance.[20, 21] Furthermore, a small variation in the thickness of a thin film induces a relatively large difference in OPV performance with low reproducibility. Thus, thin active layers with a thickness of ≈100 nm are usually unfavorable for high‐throughput coating techniques.[15] A study on slot‐die processed OPVs reported that an optimal active layer thickness was 190 nm and device failures from shunts were observed at lower active layer thicknesses.[22] Brabec and coworkers reported a quantitative imaging of shunt defects in OPV modules using lock‐in thermography which shows bright spots due to heat dissipation stemming from the enhanced recombination of photogenerated carriers at shunt sites.[23] Zhou and coworkers demonstrated that large‐area OPVs still suffer from low production yields because their thin active layer is prone to form leakage current when film defects exist in the active layer. They proposed a novel strategy to patch the defects by coating an insulating polymer to suppress the leakage current and improve the device yield of large‐area OPVs.[24] Li and coworkers asserted in their review paper that it is urgent to develop photoactive layer materials with thickness‐insensitive photovoltaic properties, because the large‐area printing technologies for commercialization of OPVs usually lead to a significant film thickness fluctuation.[16]

Recently, various thick active films have been introduced into high efficiency OPVs.[18] It is critical to control the morphology of the BHJ film, which is favorable for enhancing charge‐carrier generation and transport. The BHJ film should be controlled to have a three‐dimensional interpenetrating network structure and to induce the organic donors and acceptors to have regular molecular packing structures with face‐on orientation during coating processing. Most importantly, polymers with intrinsically high crystallinity with high thickness tolerability should be developed to produce efficient OPV devices.[2, 18, 25] For scaling up the active area of OPVs, modules are usually prepared by serially connecting narrow‐strip cells (i.e., geometries with strip widths of 1 cm or less); therefore, methods for the preparation of homogeneous and reproducible BHJ films larger than 1 cm2 are needed to minimize defect sites formed during the coating processes.[26] Defects are mostly caused by low solubility and strong aggregation tendency of the conjugated polymers, which make film deposition difficult and complicate the scale‐up of solar cell fabrication.[26, 27]

Herein, we introduce state‐of‐the‐art material systems that are adaptable to the preparation of thick active films and have high solution processability at a large active area.

2.1 Donor Materials Applicable to Thick Active Layers
It is highly important to increase charge carrier mobility of donor materials to improve their thickness tolerability. Therefore, numerous researches have focused on developing high crystalline organic materials. Yan and coworkers proposed a donor copolymer PffBT4T that consists of quaterthiophene with two bulky alkyl groups on the thiophene unit and 5,6‐difluoro‐2,1,3‐benzothiadiazole (2F‐BT). PffBT4T showed strong aggregation at low temperatures such as 25 °C in solution and could be reversibly disaggregated at elevated solution temperatures. This temperature‐dependent aggregation property enables the polymer to be fully dissolved in the blend solution with PC71BM at high temperatures, and a BHJ active film can be formed by spin coating because of the decreased solution temperature and solvent evaporation. Meanwhile, the polymer chains undergo a disorder–order transition and form a crystalline domain with high purity.[28] As a result, PffBT4T‐2OD donor polymer, which includes a 2‐octyldodecyl side chain, showed high hole mobility of (1.5–3.0) × 10−2 cm2 V−1 s−1 in a BHJ hole‐only architecture and the corresponding OPV device achieved a PCE of 10.5% with a high FF of 74% in a 300 nm‐thick active layer.[2]

Donor polymers with strong aggregation behavior have been effectively synthesized by combining various electron‐accepting units of 2F‐BT, naphtho[1,2‐c:5,6‐c′]bis([1,2,5]thiadiazole) (NT), 5,6‐difluoro‐2H‐benzotriazole (FTAZ), or 5,6‐difluoro‐2,1,3‐benzoxadiazole (ffBX) and electron‐donating units of fluorinated thiophene, thieno[3,2‐b]thiophene, or benzo[1,2‐b:4,5‐b′]dithiophene (BDT).[2, 28] These monomers can induce effective π–π interactions of the donor polymers due to their extended π‐conjugated structures and fluorine substitution. In particular, a PBDT–DTNT donor polymer composed of thienyl group‐substituted‐BDT and NT units was found to exhibit high crystallinity and a long‐range‐ordered structure in grazing‐incidence small‐angle X‐ray scattering (GISAXS) and grazing‐incidence wide‐angle X‐ray scattering (GIWAXS) experiments. The PBDT–DTNT based blend film exhibited its highest hole mobility of 1.1 × 10−3 cm2 V−1 s−1 and maintained a relatively high charge‐carrier transport ability when its thickness was in the range from 310 to 1270 nm. Consequently, OPV devices based on PBDT–DTNT with thick active layers of 280 and 940 nm showed high PCEs of 8.62% and 7.24%, respectively.[25] Huang and coworkers developed a narrow‐bandgap polymer composed of alkylated thiophene‐incorporated NT and thieno[3,2‐b]thiophene; the resulting polymer has a highly planar backbone conformation. In particular, NT812 incorporating a 2‐octyldodecyl side chain showed effective π–π stacking with face‐on orientation; the BHJ film based on NT812 exhibited a hole mobility as high as 2.7 × 10−2 cm2 V−1 s−1 and PCEs of 10.33% and 8.35% with thick active layers of 320 and 1000 nm, respectively.[29] Woo and coworkers developed a series of 6,7‐difluoroquinoxaline‐based planar polymers that exhibit intramolecular noncovalent interactions; among them, PDFQx‐3T, consisting of terthiophene paired with 6,7‐difluoroquinoxaline, showed a homogeneous and smooth BHJ morphology with a tightly stacked face‐on orientation, irrespective of the active film thickness. Because of the balanced hole and electron mobilities (μh and μe, respectively) of the BHJ film (μh: 7.7 × 10−4 cm2 V−1 s−1 and μe: 6.5 × 10−4 cm2 V−1 s−1), a solar cell device with a 270 nm‐thick active layer achieved a PCE of 8%.[30]

To achieve high hole mobility, it is important to control regioregular structures of donor polymers, which induce effective π–π stacking of the polymer chain in the film. PTB7‐Th has fluorine groups which are randomly incorporated onto its thieno[3,4‐b]thiophene unit. Regioregular PTB7‐Th (P2) was prepared through polymerization of the monomer of a regularly oriented intermediate. The P2:PC71BM blend film showed a favorable BHJ morphology with high and well‐balanced charge‐carrier mobilities (μh: 1.60 × 10−2 cm2 V−1 s−1 and μe: 9.76 × 10−3 cm2 V−1 s−1) in the absence of a processing additive. As a result, the regioregular polymer with an active layer thickness of 420 nm showed an improved PCE of 10.42%; by comparison, the regio‐irregular PTB7‐Th exhibited a PCE of 5.6%.[31]

Small molecular donors are also important candidates for large‐area OPV applications because of their advantages of high crystallinity in a film and high material purity with reproducible solar cell properties. Jones and coworkers developed a small molecular donor BTR composed of benzodithiophene, terthiophene, and rhodanine; BTR exhibited good liquid‐crystalline behavior. The BTR molecule has a rigid and planar backbone, which facilitates efficient π–π stacking and strong intermolecular interaction. The optimized blend system prepared by solvent vapor annealing exhibited a high hole mobility of 1.6 × 10−3 cm2 V−1 s−1 and a high PCE of 9.3% with a 250 nm‐thick active layer.[32]

A ternary system was developed by adding a small molecular donor BTR to a PTB7‐Th:PC71BM binary blend; the resulting OPVs showed high tolerance to increased active layer thicknesses and thus achieved a PCE of 11.4% because of the higher charge‐carrier mobility, optimized BHJ morphology, and improved light harvesting compared with the binary blend system.[33] Meanwhile, a ternary system prepared by adding a small molecular donor p‐DTS(FBTTh2)2 to PTB7‐Th:PC71BM binary blend exhibited reduced trap sites and enhanced hole mobility because the small molecular donor functioned as conducting bridges that connected neighboring polymer domains. Therefore, the ternary system with an active layer thickness of 195 nm achieved a PCE of 8.3%.[34] The chemical structures mentioned in this section are displayed in Figure 2, and the performance of solar cells with a thick active layer is summarized in Table 1.

2.2 Nonfullerene Acceptor Materials Applicable to Thick Active Layers
Various organic acceptor materials for OPVs have been developed as replacements for traditional fullerene‐based acceptors. These nonfullerene acceptors have received intensive attention from researchers because of their attractive advantages, which include a tunable bandgap and energy levels, high absorption coefficients, and relatively low VOC losses. Therefore, the OPV performance has rapidly increased, resulting in PCEs greater than 18% by virtue of the nonfullerene acceptors enabling effective light‐energy harvesting in the visible to the near IR range.[35-40] Notably, some acceptor materials have shown high OPV efficiency even with active films thicker than 200 nm because they can form an appropriate BHJ morphology for efficient electron transport. The chemical structures mentioned in this section are shown in Figure 3 and the performances of nonfullerene acceptor based OPV under thick active layer are summarized in Table 1.

Brabec and coworkers developed a blend system of poly(3‐hexylthiophene‐2,5‐diyl) (P3HT) and nonfullerene acceptor IDTBR that showed low bimolecular recombination because of high charge‐carrier lifetimes, slow thermalization, and the absence of parasitic recombination such as trap‐assisted recombination. These features are mainly attributable to the high crystallinity and favorable molecular orientation of both donors and acceptors. The optimized OPV device with a BHJ film showed a relatively high PCE of 6.15% and 5.43% when the active layer thickness was 300 and 450 nm, respectively.[41]

Solution processing conditions also strongly affect the morphology of BHJ active films with various film thicknesses. Baran and coworkers developed an OPV device with a high current density of 27.3 mA cm−2 using the well‐known donor polymer PTB7‐Th and a narrow‐bandgap nonfullerene acceptor IEICO‐4F. They optimized the blend morphology by controlling the amount of 1‐chloronaphthalene used as a solvent additive, resulting in high and balanced hole and electron mobilities and reduced trap‐assisted recombination losses through the increased π–π stacking coherence length of IEICO‐4F and the preferred face‐on orientation. The best‐performing devices with active layer thicknesses of 221 and 257 nm achieved PCEs of 11.4% and 10.2%, respectively.[42] These results indicate that appropriate processing additives should be carefully introduced, with consideration of the combination of donor and acceptor materials.

For developing acceptor materials with high thickness tolerability, high crystalline properties of the materials are critical. Control of substitution groups of nonfullerene acceptor molecules is effective for improving their molecular packing structure in a BHJ film. For example, Hou and coworkers synthesized PBDB‐T‐SF and IT‐4F by fluorinating the well‐known donor polymer PBDB‐T and the acceptor ITIC, respectively. The fluorination effectively decreased the energy bandgap of the acceptor, resulting in a broad range absorption as well as deeper HOMO and LUMO energy levels. Furthermore, the fluorination of the donor and acceptor induced the formation of more ordered intermolecular arrangements and enhanced the charge‐carrier mobility in the resultant films. The BHJ film of PBDB‐T‐SF donor and IT‐4F acceptor exhibited balanced hole and electron mobilities of 3.25 × 10−4 and 4.32 × 10−4 cm2 V−1 s−1, respectively. As a result, the OPV device with PBDB‐T‐SF:IT‐4F and a 200 nm‐thick active layer achieved a PCE greater than 12%.[43] Nonfullerene acceptor IDTT‐OB, onto which two octyl and two hexylphenyl side chains were asymmetrically substituted, was synthesized. Both pristine and blend films of IDTT‐OD showed high crystallinity with strong face‐on orientations. The BHJ film optimized using 1,8‐diiodooctane (DIO) as a solvent additive exhibited increased crystallinity of both the donor and acceptor materials and thus showed high and balanced hole and electron mobilities of 4.87 × 10−4 and 4.13 × 10−4 cm2 V−1 s−1, respectively. Moreover, a thick BHJ film of 250 nm maintained high hole and electron mobilities of 5.52 × 10−4 and 4.06 × 10−4 cm2 V−1 s−1, respectively, and the resulting OPV device achieved a PCE of 10.2%.[44]

Nonfullerene acceptor Y6, which consists of a ladder‐type electron‐deficient core and an electron‐withdrawing flanking group, was synthesized. Y6 can form strong π–π stacking with a face‐on orientation. A blend film of donor polymer PBDB‐TF and Y6 also showed highly ordered molecular structures; the corresponding OPV device therefore exhibited efficient charge transport and reduced charge recombination. Consequently, PCEs of 14.1% and 13.6% with high FFs of ≈75% were obtained with 250 and 300 nm‐thick active films because of the high hole and electron mobilities of 1.65 × 10−4 and 3.56 × 10−3 cm2 V−1 s−1, respectively.[37]

It is necessary to increase VOC as well as the other solar cell parameters of OPVs for achieving high efficiency using a thick active film. Yao and coworkers synthesized the BTP‐4Cl acceptor by substituting the fluorine group of Y6 to chlorine group. Interestingly, BTP‐4Cl showed a high VOC despite its deeper LUMO energy level compared with that of Y6. This high VOC is attributed to a lower nonradiative energy loss (0.206 eV) of BTP‐4Cl, which originated from its lower reorganization energy. Consequently, the PBDB‐TF:BTP‐4Cl‐based OPV device with a 300 nm‐thick active film exhibited a PCE of 13.4%.[38]

2.3 OPV Materials Applicable to Large‐Area
When we transfer the OPV technology of small devices at the lab‐scale to large devices or modules larger than 1 cm2 using a solution process, several issues arise, including an inhomogeneous morphology of large‐area active films and morphological changes due to different processing conditions between spin‐ and non‐spin coating methods. Most notably, it is difficult to prepare a homogeneous thick BHJ film with a large‐area. In this section, we introduce the characteristics and design strategies of materials for large‐area solution processes. The chemical structures mentioned in this section are shown in Figure 4 and the performances of lager area organic solar cells are summarized in Table 2.

BDT‐based small molecular donors shown in Figure 4 were developed, and OPV modules (77.75 cm2) were prepared using a PC71BM acceptor. BDT1, with one BDT in the molecular structure, exhibited a disconnected morphology when prepared as a BHJ film. By contrast, interconnection between donor domains was improved with increasing number of BDT units. As a result, an OPV device based on BDT2, with two BDT units in its molecular structure, showed a PCE of 7.45% compared with the 4.55% PCE of BDT1 because of the improved BHJ morphology.[45] When PDTBT‐alt‐TT[46] composed of dialkyl‐thieno[3,2‐b]thiophene and dithiphene incorporated‐BT was blended into a PC71BM BHJ film using a blade coating method, the resulting OPV module (24 cm2) with a 110 nm‐thick active layer showed a PCE of 5.58%.[47] Although early research mostly focused on the scale‐up of OPV devices and optimization of the morphology of BHJ large‐area films, the active layer film thickness has not been much considered an important parameter for manufacturing reliable OPV modules.

Synthesis of random terpolymer donors was demonstrated to be a good strategy for realizing high performing large‐area OPVs using a thick BHJ film. Son and coworkers developed random terpolymers based on the highly crystalline PffBT4T copolymer by partially substituting an alkyl thiophene incorporated 2F‐BT (A1) in the polymer with its derivative (A2). The crystallinity and processability of the resulting polymer was tuned depending on the feed molar ratio of A1 and A2. A random terpolymer prepared from 10 mol% of A2 monomer, PDT2fBT‐BT10, exhibited excellent processability while maintaining high crystallinity and a favorable face‐on molecular orientation in the BHJ film. Furthermore, the polymer showed suppressed aggregation and improved nanoscale phase separation for efficient charge generation and transport. Consequently, the OPV device with a 1 cm2 active area and 351 nm‐thick active layer showed a high PCE of 9.42%.[26] They also synthesized a series of random terpolymers based on alkylated dithiophene incorporated‐2F‐BT and bithiophene using 0% (BDT‐Th0), 10% (BDT‐Th10), 20%, and 30% feed molar ratios of a BDT moiety. The BDT‐Th0 polymer formed irregular large polymer aggregates in the BHJ, whereas BDT‐Th10 showed an appropriate polymer packing structure without substantial agglomeration. Thereby, BDT‐Th10 achieved a high PCE of 7.74% from a large‐area module (58.5 cm2) with 350 nm film thickness, indicating that the BDT‐Th10 random terpolymer is potentially applicable to the large‐scale production of OPV modules using a solution process.[48] PBTZT‐stat‐BDTT‐8 random terpolymers based on BT, BDT, and thiophene derivatives were prepared, and the polymers were reported to form uniform films via various coating methods because of their high solution processability. Therefore, the resulting OPV modules exhibited high performance with a wide range of active layer thicknesses. A flexible module prepared using a 250 nm‐thick film and a 114.5 cm2 active area achieved a PCE as high as 4.5%.[49]

A ternary blend was developed as a large‐area active material. The introduction of a highly crystalline small molecular donor, p‐DTS(FBTTh2)2, into a blend of PTB7‐Th donor and PC71BM effectively enhanced the molecular crystallinity and face‐on orientation in the corresponding BHJ film without sacrificing solution processability of the precursor solution. Thus, the thickness tolerability of the BHJ film was substantially improved compared with that of the polymer:PC71BM binary blend. As a result, a ternary blend with 15 w/w% p‐DTS(FBTTh2)2 enabled the fabrication of flexible modules with PCEs of 5.82% and 5.18%, where the module active areas were 10 and 20 cm2, respectively, and the active layer thicknesses ranged from 200 to 270 nm.[50] OPV modules based on a ternary blend which is composed of a PTB7‐Th donor and two acceptors, PC71BM, and COi8DFIC, were prepared by slot‐die coating. The ternary blend was optimized to form an optimal morphology with high crystallinity and face‐on orientation of the polymer, resulting in improved charge‐transporting properties and suppression of charge‐carrier recombination. Consequently, the optimized ternary system with a large‐area of 30 cm2 achieved a high PCE of 8.6%.[51]

The performance of large‐area OPV modules has been increased since the active film employed the nonfullerene acceptor in BHJ films. Yang and coworkers demonstrated PBTIBDTT:ITIC‐F blend‐based OPV modules with a high PCE of 8.6% and an active area of 3.48 cm2 despite the device being prepared without using DIO as an additive.[52] Later, Zhang and coworkers demonstrated 1 cm2 OPV cells based on a blend of PBDB‐TF donor and IT‐4F acceptor. The OPVs showed a high PCE of 11.4% with a thick active layer of 285 nm because of suppressed recombination in the device.[53] This result is correlated to high crystallinity of the donor polymer and a favorable BHJ morphology. A random terpolymer, SMD2, was prepared by partially substituting alkyl chains into the alkylthio chains in the BDT‐Th unit of polymer PBDB‐T. SMD2 exhibited lower material aggregation and high solution processability due to the irregular chemical structure of the polymer. Furthermore, the SMD2 blend film with ITIC‐Th acceptor showed favorable BHJ morphology without any pre‐ or post‐treatment because of the appropriate miscibility and crystallinity of the polymer. Consequently, a flexible OPV module with an 80 cm2 active layer with 200 nm film thickness prepared via an all‐solution process achieved a PCE of 5.25%.[54]

In general, realizing high efficiency large‐area OPVs necessitates the development of a BHJ film with nanoscale phase separation in a large and thick active film, which enable high and balanced charge‐carrier transport. In the early stages of OPV development, researchers focused on developing crystalline polymers with high hole mobility comparable to the electron mobility of fullerene acceptors. Recently, various nonfullerene acceptors have been synthesized and the resulting BHJ films have been formulated to enable efficient light‐energy harvesting and to exhibit a high photovoltage through optimization of the morphology in thick and large active layer films. Strategies involving random copolymerization of the donor polymers and the introduction of ternary systems into the photoactive layer have been effectively developed to control the nanoscale morphology and achieve high solution processability; these techniques have created room for improving the efficiency of large‐area OPVs.

3 Morphology Control for Large‐Area Fabrication
The performance of OPVs, irrespective of the size of their active area, is closely correlated to the BHJ morphology of the deposited active layer—in particular, the nanoscale packing structures of the donor and acceptor materials. Usually, compared with the films of organic small molecules, those of conjugated polymers in OPVs are more complex, including not only crystalline or semicrystalline domains but also amorphous domains. In polymer‐based BHJ films, the phase‐separated domain size between the two semiconducting materials and the efficient out‐of‐plane charge transport within these percolated domains to the electrodes are considered the most important characteristics.[55] Therefore, for high efficiency, the degree of crystallinity, grain size and orientation, and chain density and alignment in the amorphous region should be carefully controlled.

The morphology of BHJs can be remarkably affected by their deposition process, and various solution‐based deposition methods have been developed to form uniform BHJ films with an optimal morphology.[56] Spin coating is the most commonly used technique for preparing small‐area films at the laboratory scale. Spin coating is advantageous in that it is a simple and reproducible process. However, spin coating is not appropriate for large‐area coating, because of its various shortcomings, which include wasting large amounts of materials and nonuniform film morphologies because the shear stress applied to the film during spinning is not uniform, which makes controlling film morphology difficult.[15, 17, 57] Non‐spin coating‐based methods have been developed to transfer high‐performing BHJ films in small cells to large‐area modules. Meniscus‐guided coating (MGC) methods are considered simple, efficient, and low‐cost methods to fabricate electronic devices in industry.[58] Common MGC methods include dip coating, blade coating, solution shearing, and slot‐die coating. Owing to the inherent directionality of the coating process, MGC methods can induce molecular alignment of each deposited layer.[15]

In this section, we discuss the recent use of spin coating and MGC methods to prepare high‐performing large‐area OPVs and the effects of these coating methods on the BHJ morphology and photovoltaic properties of the resultant OPV devices.

3.1 Phase Separation of Donor–Acceptor BHJs
Donors and acceptors in the OPV precursor solution can phase‐separate via two mechanisms: nucleation and growth[59] and spinodal decomposition[60] (see Figure 5a,b). Usually, amorphous polymer blends undergo phase separation to minimize their Gibbs free energy, which is described by the classical Flory–Huggins solution theory.[61] This theory is based only on the thermodynamic equilibrium state when free energy is minimized. However, because of rapid solvent evaporation during the coating process, it is necessary to consider a kinetic term related to the physical properties of solvents, such as their boiling points. Also, different diffusivities of the polymer chains depending on their molecular weight and viscosity in a solution can affect mass transport of the materials during phase separation.[15] In the case of semicrystalline polymers, the phase separation is governed by both the spontaneous demixing by spinodal decomposition mechanism and polymer nucleation and crystallization mechanism.[62]

Phase separation in BHJ films is highly dependent on the donor and/or acceptor material, solvent, and the coating method. Most BHJ films are formed as a result of kinetic trapping when the phenomena of spontaneous D–A demixing and crystallization of the materials simultaneously occur during solvent evaporation.[63, 64] Therefore, the morphology of BHJs prepared using the MGC technique usually differs from that of BHJs prepared by spin coating even when other conditions related to the materials and solvents are not changed.[14] Such morphological differences can lead to a decrease in efficiency when a spin coating method is transitioned to a non‐spin coating method. For example, a blade‐coated BHJ film prepared using a 110 °C hot solution and a 90 °C substrate temperature, which were the same conditions used in spin coating, exhibited very different crystallinity of a polymer donor compared with that of the corresponding spin‐coated film.[65] By utilizing in situ optical measurements, researchers observed differences in the film solidification routes between the two coating methods: spin coating, during which the temperature rapidly decreases as solvent evaporates, resulted in a more favorable BHJ morphology and better OPV performance than an isothermally treated blade‐coated BHJ film. Therefore, re‐optimization of the processing conditions is necessary to suppress the drop of efficiency associated with non‐spin coating methods.[14] Meanwhile, some researchers have demonstrated that in the blade coating method, using a partially aggregated BHJ solution at room temperature instead of using a fully dissolved warm solution is advantageous for mimicking the optimized BHJ morphology of spin‐coated films.[66]

In the next section, we will introduce spin coating and various non‐spin coating techniques applicable to fabricating large‐area OPVs and will then discuss their operating mechanisms and the characteristics of the BHJ films prepared using each method. The performance of the large‐area OPVs fabricated by various coating methods is listed in Table 3.

Table 3. The performance of the large‐area OPVs fabricated by various coating methods

3.2 OPVs Produced by Spin Coating
Spin coating is the most representative method employed to form constituent layers in an OPV device, including the photoactive layers,[67-69] hole‐ and electron‐transport layers, and the electrodes.[70, 71] In detail, the spin coating process involves four steps: i) solution casting onto the substrate; ii) solution thinning by radially outward flow due to centrifugal force; iii) ejection of the solution from the perimeter of the substrate; and iv) further thinning and drying of the film by solvent evaporation.[72] During the spinning process, two main forces affect film quality: the centrifugal force acting outward and the viscous force acting inward. By virtue of these two forces acting in opposite directions, a uniform film can be developed.[73] Understanding the mechanism of BHJ film formation during the transition from a solution to a solid state is important for enabling the fabrication of high‐performance large‐area OPVs. For example, McCulloch and coworkers observed the morphological evolution of a ternary BHJ blend consisting of P3HT as a donor and two nonfullerene acceptors, IDTBR and IDFBR, during spin coating using in situ GIWAXS and in situ UV–vis absorption measurements.[74] They found that a sharp scattering peak corresponding to the lamellar stacking of P3HT rapidly increased, with a simultaneous decrease of the solvent scattering peak, in GIWAXS spectra obtained in situ (Figure 5c). As the solvent evaporated, P3HT in the solution became supersaturated and crystallization occurred before the acceptors were vitrified (Figure 5d), resulting in a disordered solid solution for the acceptor phase. The BHJ film with an optimized composition ratio rendered a three‐phase microstructure, which resulted in a high short‐circuit current density (JSC) of 14.1 mA cm−2, FF of 57%, and VOC of 0.81 V with a PCE of 6.5% for a device with an active area of 1 cm2.

Typical spin coating methods are rarely used for producing large‐area OPVs because of not only excessive waste of materials for coating, but also the difficulty in optimizing film morphology due to non‐uniform shear stress distribution during coating process.[15, 56] Therefore, additional methods to minimize the inhomogeneity of the film morphology are required for the fabrication of large‐area OPVs using the spin coating technique.

3.3 OPVs Produced by Meniscus‐Guided Coating
For the successful transfer of small‐area OPVs prepared using a lab‐scale process to industrially produced large‐area OPV panels, it is necessary to develop OPV devices using solution‐processing techniques that mimic the industrial fabrication process. When considering cost‐effective mass production of solar panels using solution‐processable organic semiconductors, the MGC methods of (doctor) blade coating, solution shearing, slot‐die coating, and bar coating are potentially powerful techniques for preparing large‐area OPVs. Because different techniques result in different active layer morphologies, finding the ideal coating techniques for fabricating a high‐performing polymer solar cell is challenging.[65]

When a solution, a solid substrate, and air form a three‐phase contact line, there is a meniscus which is a liquid–air interface. Evaporation of a volatile solvent at the meniscus induces a flow outward to compensate for the evaporative loss of the solvent, leaving behind accumulated non‐volatile solutes near the contact line. The ring‐like residues of the solutes are called the coffee‐stains or coffee‐rings.[75] The coffee‐ring effect is detrimental for production of deposits with uniform quality across the film so that it deteriorates the performance of solution‐processed electronic devices. MGC is utilized to suppress the coffee‐ring effect of a solution droplet by translating the meniscus across a substrate by virtue of a coating head, leading to controlled film deposition.[15, 58, 76] The film formation by MGC methods is depicted in Figure 6a.

Meng and coworkers demonstrated the effect of blade acceleration on film morphology.[77] They applied uniform acceleration to a coating blade instead of uniform speed during the blade coating process, which resulted in a more homogeneous film morphology and uniform film thickness. As a result, they produced large‐area OPVs with an active area of 108 cm2 and JSC of 1.05 mA cm−2, VOC of 6.24 V, FF of 56%, and a PCE of 3.64%. Fluid flow during blade coating usually consists of dominant shear flow and minimal extensional flow. Unlike the shear flow which induces the rotation of polymer chains without any conformational change, the extensional flow can induce crystallization of the polymer by stretching polymer chains.[78] Bao and coworkers prepared an array of micropillars on a printing blade (Figure 6b,c), which enabled them to induce extensional flow and increase the shear rate during blade coating of a photoactive layer (Figure 6d).[79] This process resulted in increased crystallinity of the donor polymer and decreased domain sizes of the microphase‐separated BHJ film. Furthermore, the enhanced crystallinity led to improved charge‐carrier mobility and, thus, an increase in the PCE of their all‐polymer solar cell (3.27%) compared with that (2.75%) of its spin‐coated counterpart.

A layer‐by‐layer (LbL) sequential blade coating approach has been developed to form a PBDB‐TF/Y6 pseudo‐bilayer as a photoactive layer, through small molecular acceptor Y6 coating on the top of donor polymer PBDB‐TF film.[80] Compared with BHJ films, LbL‐processed active films were found to have higher absorption coefficients and vertical phase separation with larger domain sizes, which are beneficial to the charge transport and extraction properties. The resulting OPV device with a small‐area of 0.04 cm2 exhibited a PCE of 16.35%, compared with 15.37% for the corresponding BHJ OPV, and achieved a PCE as high as 11.86% with JSC of 6.41 mA cm−2, VOC of 3.2 V, and FF of 57.85% when fabricated with a large‐area film of 11.52 cm2.

The morphology of BHJ films prepared by the blade coating method is strongly affected by underlying interlayers such as the hole‐transporting layer (HTL) or electron‐transporting layer (ETL). A ternary BHJ blend of PBDB‐T, PC71BM, and ITIC was deposited onto various interlayer films using a blade coating method and the resulting active layers were compared with each other. Compared with thermally deposited LiF, blade‐coated ZrOx electron‐transporting layer showed superior film uniformity, which made the solution processing of a large‐area active layer easier. Therefore, the resulting OPV showed a relatively small efficiency drop when scaled up, resulting in a high PCE of 7.69% with JSC of 0.91 mA cm−2, VOC of 14.2 V, and FF of 59% from a large‐area OPV of 216 cm2.[81]

The slot‐die coating technique enables the deposition of a striped patterned layer and is considered one of the most appropriate coating techniques for large‐area OPVs. Here, the ink is directly fed to the coating head under pressure and is translated perpendicularly to the substrate to form the striped pattern. Factors such as the viscosity of the polymer ink, coating speed, and the mask thickness usually affect the morphology of the resulting BHJ film.[82] In particular, the solubility parameter strongly influences the morphology of slot‐die‐coated films. Machui and coworkers demonstrated that the Hansen solubility and temperature parameters can be practically employed to determine appropriate solvent systems for fabricating BHJ active films (Figure 6e).[83] They thereby showed that a BHJ film can be optimized using a single solvent that can controllably dissolve both the donor and acceptor depending on the processing temperature rather than employing a co‐solvent system of a host solvent and solvent additives. They successfully developed visible‐circuitry‐free semi‐transparent OPV modules (area: 59.52 cm2) with a PCE of 4.4%, JSC of 0.81 mA cm−2, VOC of 8.39 V, and FF of 64.9%.

The slot‐die coating technique enables coatings to be stacked one layer on top of another. A ternary heterojunction was fabricated via sequential coating of a donor polymer (PTB7‐Th) solution followed by a blended solution of the small‐molecule donor p‐DTS(FBTTh2)2 and PC71BM.[84] The coating layer of the polymer donor showed pre‐aggregation of the polymer chains with an enhanced molecular face‐on orientation, resulting in improved charge‐carrier mobility and short‐circuit current density. Interestingly, this method causes the morphology of the sequentially coated photoactive thin films to have appropriate phase separation and domain size compared with one‐step‐coated photoactive thin films (Figure 6f). Accordingly, an OPV with an active area of 2 cm2 prepared using a sequential slot‐die coating method showed a PCE of 6.8% (JSC: 18.98 mA cm−2, VOC: 0.7 V, and FF: 50.85%).

It is important to develop a general approach for upscaling small‐area OPVs to large‐area OPVs with minimal efficiency loss. Chen and coworkers developed a novel strategy of “impulse calculation” for calculating the shear impulse, which is the impulse induced by the shear stress from the solution, during the coating process.[85] They found that the shear impulse values under spin coating conditions and those under slot‐die printing conditions can be converted using a transformation factor. The evolution of the BHJ morphology at the initial step of film formation becomes reproducible if the shear impulse of each coating method is controlled. As a result, an OPV cell prepared by spin coating was successfully transitioned to a slot‐die‐printed large‐area (15 cm2) flexible OPV module with a high PCE of 8.9%, JSC of 2.77 mA cm−2, VOC of 5.29 V, and FF of 60.92%.

3.4 OPVs Produced by Other Coating Methods
In this section, we introduce various large‐area coating methods other than spin coating or MGC methods. Spray coating can be exemplified as a representative coating method to form a series of layers constituting an OPV structure. Spray coating is a touch‐free, fast, and scalable coating technique in which the ink is aerosolized through a nozzle. This method is appropriate for achieving a wide range of film thicknesses and is compatible with solutions with various viscosities.[86]

Deng and coworkers prepared electrospray‐deposited P3HT:PC61BM films and demonstrated that both the surface morphology and aggregation of P3HT were strongly influenced by the overlapped boundaries formed because of the dry residues of the droplets; in addition, they found that the boundary areas in the film exhibited higher P3HT aggregation, resulting in a rougher surface than in the central flat regions.[87] A lower Damköhler number, which is defined as the ratio of evaporation time to residence time of the droplet, was found to lead to a more homogeneous film with an ambiguous boundary, smoother surface, and more uniform phase segregation. As a result, they used electrospray‐deposited P3HT:PC61BM films to fabricate an OPV device with a PCE of 4.2%, JSC of 12.75 mA cm−2, VOC of 0.66 V, and FF of 49.95% .

Two spraying techniques—high‐pressure gas spraying (HS) and ultrasonic spraying (US)—are widely used for spray coating (Figure 7a). Hou and coworkers demonstrated that an optimal photoactive film morphology could be obtained if these two different spraying techniques could be appropriately combined.[88] The photoactive layer was formed by using a sequence of HS and US coating methods. The US‐processed film exhibits better BHJ morphology with improved nanoscale crystallization (Figure 7b), whereas the HS‐process resulted in micrometer‐scale rough film surface, which is advantageous for increasing light‐trapping. The synergic combination of HS and US methods to prepare a photoactive film resulted in a nonfullerene acceptor‐based small‐area OPV with a PCE of 8.06% and in a large‐area (1 cm2) OPV with a PCE of 4.81%, JSC of 13.69 mA cm−2, VOC of 0.71 V, and FF of 49.71%.[89]

The inkjet printing technique is sometimes used to prepare solution‐processable OPVs because of its cost effectiveness, high‐resolution printing capability, and suitability for free‐form manufacturing. However, ink preparation using organic materials faces some unresolved issues: the ink is usually required to have an appropriate viscosity and surface tension, and it sometimes includes volatile solvents, which can induce precipitation of crystalline polymers.[90] Eggenhuisen and coworkers successfully controlled the viscosity of nonhalogenated solvent‐based photoactive inks using polystyrene (PS).[91] A small amount of PS was introduced into the photoactive ink, which resulted in a substantial increase in the dynamic viscosity, with a small photocurrent loss of ≈20% and, thus, enhanced processability of the ink. The OPV device exhibited a PCE of 1.76% with JSC of 5.49 mA cm−2, VOC of 0.561 V, and FF of 57.1% from a cell area of 0.805 cm2. Baran and coworkers optimized the parameters of an inkjet printing system for achieving high‐performance OPVs.[92] They tuned the rheological properties of the photoactive inks to enable the ejection of solution without unwanted small droplets and/or tails and selected solvents with appropriate solubility and volatility to avoid nozzle clogging. They also adjusted the printing parameters such as the drop spacing and the bed temperature for better surface morphology and device performance. As a result, a P3HT:IDTBR‐based OPV with an active area of 2 cm2 showed a PCE of ≈6% (Figure 7c). Furthermore, by virtue of versatile shape formation by inkjet printing, a turtle‐shaped OPV with a total area of 2.2 cm2 and a PCE of 4.76% was demonstrated.

Water transfer printing method, in which a thin film dried on an aqueous substrate is transferred on target substrates, is one of candidates for fabrication of uniform large‐area photoactive films. The process can be presented with two steps of quick spread of dropped solution over the aqueous substrate and transfer of the quickly dried thin film on the aqueous substrate onto the target substrates (Figure 7d). The spreading behavior of dropped solution onto the water can be predicted by calculating the net surface tension at the air‐water‐solution contact line.[93] Lee and coworkers demonstrated that OPVs prepared using this method in the air showed comparable device performance with the spin‐coated counterparts fabricated in the inert condition. Furthermore, by introducing the water transfer printing, they successfully prepared a large‐area (25 × 100 cm2) BHJ film (Figure 7e).[93] Zhou and coworkers fabricated a large‐area (3.2 cm2) OPV using PBDB‐TF:IT‐4F blend film as photoactive layer.[94] The resulting OPV achieved a high performance with a high PCE of 8.1%, JSC of 3.6 mA cm−2, VOC of 3.4 V, and FF of 67%.

4 Stability Issues of OPVs
By general consensus, for OPV modules to be used in commercial applications, their operating lifetime should be at least 10 years because the lifetime is directly correlated to the production cost for electrical energy.[95, 96] Yang and coworkers stated that low cost, high PCE, and high stability are considered to be the golden triangle for commercial applications solar cells.[10] However, most OPV research has been focused on developing high‐performing organic materials and processing methods pursuing high efficiency. Espeically, in the OPV research field, the stability of OPV devices is of great importance as well as high PCE. Organic materials, including conjugated polymers, are susceptible to chemical degradation under UV light or when exposed to chemicals such as oxygen, water, and metal oxides. Oxygen and water can be adsorbed onto the active or charge‐transporting layers during device fabrication or can diffuse into the OPV device during operation. The morphological structure of the BHJ film is a kinetically trapped state and thus not permanent. Therefore, when the BHJ film is exposed to device operating conditions (i.e., elevated temperatures), active materials such as small organic molecules and even polymers diffuse slowly or recrystallize over time until they reach a thermodynamic equilibrium state. As a result, a device under a thermodynamic equilibrium state sometimes exhibits a BHJ morphology that differs greatly from that associated with optimum device performance.[97, 98] Numerous studies have been performed to reveal the mechanism of the degradation;[99-104] however, the stability/degradation issue is difficult to elucidate because most organic materials undergo chemical and/or thermal degradation in individually different manners. Furthermore, the degradation mechanism is affected not only by chemical structures of the organic materials but also by the processing conditions and neighboring charge‐transporting materials. Recently emerging nonfullerene acceptors have dramatically widened the room for increasing OPV performance because of the diversity of the chemical structures of organic materials;[35, 105] however, the degradation issue becomes more complicated because the degradation mechanism also occurs more diversely depending on the material structure.

All‐solution roll‐to‐roll (R2R) processes enable high throughput manufacturing of flexible OPV modules.[13, 106-109] In flexible large‐area OPV modules that suffer from insufficient barrier properties of plastic substrate, water uptake and Ag migration accelerated by hygroscopic and acidic PEDOT:PSS layer can degrade the device stability.[109] In a series‐connected module, interconnections can introduce a resistive loss.[110]

The lifetime of OPV devices is usually estimated by extrapolating the efficiency decay obtained from indoor degradation tests under accelerated conditions because the outdoor tests of OPV lifetimes are time consuming. Stability studies carried out under indoor conditions are advantageous in that the data collection time is shortened and the degradation factors can be well controlled and defined. However, the degradation mechanism under indoor conditions does not reflect that under the real outdoor environment, which changes more dynamically; thus, the outdoor lifetimes of OPVs cannot be completely predicted from the results of indoor tests. Recently, outdoor research has been frequently performed to directly obtain information regarding OPV module stability under realistic operating conditions.[111-113]

Herein, we survey recent research progress regarding long‐term stability issues arisen from both of small cells and large‐area OPV devices and degradation which are particularly issued in large‐area all solution processable OPV modules. We discuss examples of outdoor lifetime testing.

4.1 Measurement and Assessment of OPV Device Stability
A proper measurement of solar cell performance over time is essential to study the degradation mechanisms and to assess device lifetime. Standard procedures are needed so that researchers can compare stability data among different devices or against results reported by other research groups.[114] Consequently, standard procedures for testing the lifetimes of OPV devices and modules were established at the International Summit on OPV Stability (ISOS) in 2011; these standards are based on the consensus of a large number of research groups to ensure reproducibility and to enable reliable comparisons among different research environments.[114] The ISOS stability test protocols include the dark storage lifetime (ISOS‐D), outdoor test (ISOS‐O), indoor laboratory weathering testing under a simulated light source (ISOS‐L), thermal cycling (ISOS‐T), and solar–thermal–humidity cycling test (ISOS‐LT). Each of these is subdivided into three levels: basic (Level 1), intermediate (Level 2), and advanced (Level 3). In each of these categories, the main test parameters (temperature, humidity, environment, light, and electrical load) are specified.[114] For example, for the ISOS‐D‐3 damp heat test, OPV devices are stored in the dark at 65/85 °C and at a relative humidity (RH) of 85%; for the ISOS‐L‐3 lab weathering test, OPV devices are exposed under simulated 1 sun illumination at 65/85 °C and at an RH of ≈50%; for the ISOS‐T‐3 thermal cycling test, OPV devices are stored in the dark at alternating temperatures between −40 °C and +85 °C and under an RH of ≈55%.[115]

Degradation in OPVs as a function of time falls into three general time regimes: an initial period of rapid degradation, a period of stabilized degradation, and eventual device failure. The initial period of rapid degradation is typically referred to as “burn‐in.” To quantitatively assess the lifetime of OPV devices, the time of operation until 80% (T80) and 50% (T50) of the initial PCE are extracted. During the second period of stabilized degradation after burn‐in, Ts80 and Ts50 can also be extracted with respect to the second initial PCE.[114] For extrapolation of the stabilized lifetime, many research groups usually assume linear decay.[116-119] Instead, Roesch and coworkers suggested the application of a biexponential function as a model to fit stabilized degradation after burn‐in: η(t) = A e−t/τ1 + B e−t/τ2, where η is the device efficiency but can also be any other photovoltaic parameter such as FF, JSC, or VOC. A and B are the scaling parameters for each exponential function; the sum of A and B should either be equal to the initial efficiency or unity, depending on whether an absolute or normalized curve is fitted. τ1 and τ2 are the respective time constants of the exponential decays.[120]

4.2 Degradation Mechanisms and Progress in Improving the Stability of OPVs
In this section, we addressed degradation mechanism and the related research progress in OPV materials and devices, which are considered important regardless of the device sizes. The photodegradation mechanisms of OPV active materials can be divided into two different paths depending on their nature: extrinsic degradation by oxygen or water, and intrinsic degradation such as intermolecular photoreaction.

Extrinsic degradation occurs when O2 or H2O permeate into devices either in the dark or under illumination. The two most dominant extrinsic degradation mechanisms are oxidation of metal electrodes or buffer layers and photooxidation of active materials. The irreversible photobleaching of active materials occurs in the presence of oxygen via the formation of superoxide anion radical (•O2−) via electron transfer from the LUMO levels of the excited donors or acceptors to molecular oxygen (O2).[121, 122] The rate of photobleaching of the active materials is found to consistently increase with decreasing electron affinity (EA) of a fullerene derivative used as the active material. Consequently, utilization of a fullerene derivative with a strong EA can suppress the photobleaching reaction of a blend film. In addition, the role of fullerene derivatives as radical scavengers has been reported.[123] The introduction of a nickel chelate (nickel dibutyldithiocarbamate) as an antioxidant can suppress the photobleaching of active materials.[124, 125] The antioxidant stabilizes the active materials by scavenging reactive oxygen species (ROS) such as superoxide anion radical (•O2−), hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), singlet oxygen (1O2), and hydroxyl radical (•OH).[126]

Degradation can occur intrinsically by photochemical reactions of active materials even though infiltration of oxygen and water has been completely excluded. For example, photoinduced dimerization of PC61BM is a representative case. The kinetics of dimer formation and decomposition depend on temperature, light irradiation dose, and blend composition.[127] The activation energy for photodimerization is estimated to be 0.021 eV, which is considerably smaller than that for decomposition (0.96 eV), consistent with decomposition occurring at elevated temperatures. PCBM dimerization results in widening of the bandgap, which in turn results in increased disorder of both the HOMO and the LUMO level of PCBM.[128] The ratio of populations of the dimer and monomer approach an equilibrium value at a steady state, which implies that it is closely related to the stabilized long‐term lifetime of OPVs with PCBM after burn‐in.

To avoid dimerization and its detrimental effect on PC61BM in OPVs, PC71BM or nonfullerene acceptors can be used. Recently, nonfullerene acceptors have become preferred materials in OPV devices because of their promising physical properties, which can contribute to an enhancement of the solar cell efficiency. Accordingly, extensive investigations into the long‐term stability of OPVs with nonfullerene acceptors are desired. With respect to stability of nonfullerene acceptors, molecular structure and conformation have been found to play important roles.[129] Kim and coworkers identified that a three‐phase degradation process occurs: i) an initial photoinduced conformational change, followed by ii) photo‐oxidation and fragmentation disrupting the molecular chromophore and iii) complete chromophore bleaching. The initial conformational change is a critical prerequisite for further degradation of nonfullerene acceptor IDTBR and IDFBR, where the already‐twisted IDFBR is more susceptible to degradation. This result suggests that planarity of the conjugated backbone and crystallinity of these small molecule nonfullerene acceptors are beneficial to the photostability of films with a thickness of 50–100 nm. This finding is consistent with previous results showing that crystalline films are observed to be more stable than noncrystalline films.[130, 131]

Recently, researchers have found that interfacial reaction between ZnO ETL and nonfullerene acceptors under UV light irradiation can jeopardize the device stability. Zhou and coworkers performed a comparative study on the photostability of IT‐4F nonfullerence acceptor deposited on ZnO or SnO2 ETL and they found that the OPV device with PBDB‐TF:IT‐4F deposited on the SnO2 ETL showed better photostability than the counterpart on ZnO ETL (Figure 8a–c).[132] Son and coworkers found that a ZnO ETL in an encapsulated inverted OPV device promotes an intrinsic radical‐induced photooxidation of the acceptor ITIC at the interfacial region of 5–10 nm (Figure 8d–i).[104] This result is consistent with previous observations that a PBDB‐T:PC71BM device is more stable than a PBDB‐T:ITIC device.[133] Photoexcitation by UV light at ZnO produces hydroxyl radicals from adsorbed H2O that degrades the nonfullerene acceptor.[134] To suppress the degradation reaction of the nonfullerene acceptor caused by the photocatalytic activity of ZnO, insertion of a thin interlayer at the interface or surface modification of the ZnO ETL in inverted OPV devices has been extensively studied using lithium doping,[135] aluminum doping,[136] magnesium doping,[137] C60 self‐assembled monolayers,[119] pyrene‐bodipy dye,[138] and the water‐soluble conjugated polyelectrolyte PFEOSO3Li.[139] Surface modification of the ZnO ETL reduces interface trap‐assisted recombination losses and has enhanced their long‐term stability, resulting in extrapolated T80 lifetimes longer than 20 years.

DIO with a high boiling point (332.5 °C at 1 atm) has been added in OPV devices to optimize the BHJ morphology. However, residual DIO has been demonstrated to adversely affect long‐term stability. Specifically, DIO has been reported to generate iodine radicals and hydrogen iodide (HI) upon UV irradiation, which accelerates the degradation of OPV devices based on PBDTTT‐E and PBDTTT‐ET blended with PC71BM.[140] In‐operando GISAXS measurements have revealed that residual DIO in PTB7‐Th:PC71BM reduces the domain size upon illumination under vacuum.[141] Blade coating has been demonstrated to induce a greater degree of molecular packing for both the conjugated polymer donor PBDB‐T and the small‐molecular nonfullerene acceptor ITIC so that the blade coating can partially replace the role of DIO with a smaller amount of additive. A blade‐coated device exhibited a PCE of 10.03% and better stability than the corresponding spin‐coated device with 1% DIO (PCE of 9.41%), showing that the blade coating method is a promising process for manufacturing large‐area OPV devices.[142]

Defect sites in OPVs, such as polymer chain ends with reactive groups and halide/metal impurities left over from synthesis, can function as exciton‐quenching sites or initiation points of radical‐induced intrinsic photodegradation reactions.[103] The diffusion of indium from an ITO electrode corroded by an acidic PEDOT:PSS layer into an active layer has also been reported to create a defect site.[143] In this context, small‐molecule active materials with a highly crystalline structure and high purity are considered exemplary OPV materials with respect to long‐term stability. Forrest's group demonstrated exceptionally long intrinsic operational lifetimes under 37 sun illumination with small‐molecule active materials and an MoO3 HTL.[144] Their OPVs exhibit extrapolated operational lifetimes greater than 10  000 years, which is the longest lifetime among OPV cells reported thus far. These results indicate that OPV cells have the potential to meet the rigorous stability requirements of the solar power industry.

A bicontinuous morphology of BHJ blended with donors and acceptors is favorable for achieving high efficiency but is thermodynamically unstable; thus, the morphology can be easily changed by demixing and aggregation upon thermal annealing. Macroscale phase separation of D/A blend films decreases the voltage‐independent exciton diffusion efficiency, leading to a reduction of the JSC. Therefore, using a material that maintains morphological stability with a high glass‐transition temperature and high crystallinity is critical to prevent the detrimental macroscale phase separation of active materials under thermal stress. Recently, a small molecular donor[145] and a nonfullerene acceptor[146] with high thermal stability have been developed. Typical small‐molecule donors exhibit high crystallinity due to strong intermolecular interactions, which result in large‐scale phase separation. An OPV device with a small‐molecule donor whose π–π stacking between molecular backbones was suppressed by the introduction of large steric hindrance exhibited much improved thermal stability, maintaining 89% of its initial efficiency after the active layer was annealed at 180 °C for 7 days.[145] Cross‐linking of conjugated polymers is another strategy to preserve morphological stability.[147] Cross‐linked polymer solar cells blended with the nonfullerene acceptor IT‐4F showed enhanced performance due to optimized nanophase separation with crystalline and small domains, resulting in efficient charge generation. A small amount of additives with hydrogen bonding can be introduced to improve the thermal stability of OPVs.[148] The addition of 5 wt% of 1,4‐piperazine, which exhibits good miscibility with polymers and can form intermolecular hydrogen bonds, can ameliorate the structural incompatibilities between the donor and acceptor molecules, leading to a substantial improvement in stability (Figure 9a–c).[148] The introduction of 1 wt% of polymer acceptor PZ1 into PBDB‐TF:BTTT‐2Cl blend enabled a thermally stable morphology, which led to an improved PCE of 15.10% and an improved hole mobility and charge‐carrier lifetime; the device maintained its efficiency for nearly 800 h under accelerated aging tests at 150 °C (Figure 9d–f).[149] To solve the intrinsic thermal stability issue of BHJ OPVs, single‐component organic solar cells (SCOSCs) with donor and acceptor moieties in single molecules have recently been developed, resulting in devices with PCEs of 2.7–3.2%.[150, 151] SCOSCs exhibit excellent thermal stability, with suppression of large‐scale phase aggregation.

High durability against mechanical stress of lightweight and flexible OPVs are desired for use in wearable electronics and the large‐area and flexible devices can be fabricated via low‐cost roll‐to‐roll printing processes.[152] The inevitable fracture of inorganic transporting layers and deficient interlayer adhesion are critical challenges to the realization of large‐area flexible OPVs. A flexible OPV device based on PBDB‐TF:Y6 with solution‐processed Al‐doped ZnO (AZO) and a silver nanowire network as a replacement of an ITO electrode produced a PCE of 15.21%, which is comparable to its counterpart with glass/ITO (15.78%). The performance of these flexible OPVs is less influenced by the device area, and the OPVs exhibit robust durability when bent.[153, 154] Adhesive or cohesive failures of active layers have been observed to occur at high PCBM concentrations due to the low cohesive fracture energy of PCBM. In contrast to the brittle nature of PCBM, high fracture resistance of polymer acceptors has been demonstrated. A sequential blade coating process with initial deposition of an FOIC:N2200 acceptor layer followed by a PTB7‐Th donor layer resulted in a device with a PCE of 12.27% with favorable vertical phase‐separation in the inverted device as well as improved mechanical durability compared with that of the control device without a polymer acceptor.[155] Studies with a similar approach of the sequential blade coating and/or a ternary blend showed high PCEs and stabilities.[156, 157] All‐polymer solar cells with polymer donors and acceptors P(NDI2HD‐T) with good ductility has also been demonstrated.[158, 159] The polymer acceptors with superior mechanical properties exhibit greater tolerance to severe deformations than conventional polymer‐fullerene solar cells, paving the way for applications in flexible and portable devices. In addition, the blending of polymer acceptor N2200 into a BHJ resulted in excellent stability against humidity compared with the stability of PCBM, demonstrating that a stable polymer acceptor is advantageous for the practical large‐scale production of OPVs.[160]

4.3 Other Failure Modes of Large‐Area OPV Modules
In addition to the degradation mechanisms previously reviewed, large‐area OPV modules may undergo other failure modes. For the harsh damp heat test (ISOS‐L‐3), large‐area flexible OPV modules suffer from insufficient barrier properties of plastic substrate and imperfect sealing of encapsulation. Thereby, water uptake by hygroscopic PEDOT:PSS in the flexible OPV modules can lead to efficiency loss over time.[107, 109, 161] PEDOT:PSS is a representative solution processable hole transporting material frequently used for solution processable large‐area OPVs. To alleviate the water uptake, researchers have utilized additives such as dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) or ethylene glycol (EG) into the PEDOT:PSS ink.[107, 109] PEDOT:PSS is a mixture composed of conducting and hydrophobic PEDOT and insulating hydrophilic PSS.[162] The additive‐processed PEDOT:PSS layer exhibits an enhanced electric conductivity. The mechanism is that the additives induce segregation of fibrillar PEDOT in the film, excluding the insulating PSS from the conductive pathways (Figure 10a).[163, 164] The improved crystallinity of PEDOT and the pathway for the carrier transport mitigate the efficiency loss caused by the water uptake of the hygroscopic PEDOT:PSS layer in OPV devices (Figure 10b). The acidic property of PEDOT:PSS layer in the inverted device configuration corrodes the Ag metal electrode so that Ag migration is accelerated which can result in degradation of the OPV modules.[109] As alternative hole‐transporting materials that can substitute PEDOT:PSS, transition metal oxide (such as MoO3, WO3, V2O5, and NiO), graphene oxide, and transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDs) (such as MoS2, MoSe2, WS2, WSe2, and WTe2) have been studied. Although MoO3 has been widely utilized as a HTL in OPVs, its deposited layer thickness should be precisely controlled at 15 nm or less by thermal evaporation because of low conductivity of MoO3 which implicates that MoO3 is unfavorable to large‐scale manufacturing.[165] Interestingly, graphene oxide and TMDs are becoming attractive materials that can be incorporated into OPV devices due to their two‐dimensional structures, solution processability, and tunable work function (Figure 10c), which can enhance charge transport property in solar cells.[166-169] Recently, Anthopoulos and coworkers reported a high PCE of 17% based on PBDB‐TF:Y6: PC71BM ternary bulk‐heterojunction with liquid exfoliated WS2 as the HTL (Figure 10d).[169] These results highlight the potential of TMDs as cost‐effective HTL materials for highly efficient and stable OPV modules.

Although a thermally evaporated metal electrode can deliver relatively a high PCE of solar cells, a conductive Ag paste or nanowire has been used for flexible OPV modules manufactured by an all‐solution roll‐to‐roll (R2R) process to enable high throughput production (Figure 10e).[13, 54, 106-108] Recently, Moon and coworkers demonstrated evaporation‐free nonfullerene flexible OPV modules (with an active area of 80 cm2) comprising 10 cells connected in series using a WO3/PEDOT:PSS bilayer HTL with a PCE of 5.25%, VOC of 8.8 V, JSC of 1.12 mA cm−2, and FF of 53.1%. Their small area (0.04 cm2) device with the bilayer HTL and the Ag paste showed a PCE of 8.0%, VOC of 0.858 V, JSC of 15.1 mA cm−2, and FF of 61.9%.[54] Zhou and coworkers reported efficient all‐solution‐processed nonfullerene organic solar cells fabricated with the Ag nanowire electrodes and hydrogen molybdenum bronze/PEDOT:PSS bilayer HTL and achevied a PCE of 11.9%, VOC of 0.83 V, JSC of 21.0 mA cm−2, and FF of 68% at an active area of 0.04 cm2.[170]

Practically, large‐area photovoltaic modules are made up of multiple interconnected cells. In a series‐connected module, the output current is limited by the lowest performing cell while voltages are summed up. When part of cells of the module in operation are degraded and the degraded cell produces less current, the current matching of series‐connected cells will lead to reduction of total current of the module.[101, 171] In addition, the interconnections introduce interconnect resistance (Rint), which is basically an Ohmic contact resistance between the top and bottom electrodes, thereby increased Rint by degradation of the interconnections can lead to efficiency loss of modules.[17, 101, 110, 171] To prevent the resistive losses at the interconnections and minimize a dead area, precise design and patterning techniques such as laser ablation are required.[172, 173] Studies on crystalline silicon solar modules already evidenced the degradation of interconnections which had experienced field temperature cycling. Thermal cycling induces thermo‐mechanical stress and cracks of the solder interconnection caused by mismatch of thermal expansion coefficient between the module material and the ribbon wire solder.[174, 175] Therefore, researchers need to pay attention to interconnections and joint adhesion of OPV modules to improve the device stability.

4.4 Outdoor Stability Testing of OPV Modules
The device stability and lifetime of OPVs have been estimated on the basis of simulated degradation experiments performed under accelerated lifetime testing conditions (by solar/thermal/humidity cycling) in laboratories, whereas real photovoltaic systems experience various environmental conditions during outdoor operation. Thus, changes in the outdoor environment can introduce additional stresses and accelerate the degradation of OPV devices and modules. Given the difficulties of simulating real‐world outdoor environments, several research groups have been investigating the outdoor device lifetime directly.[176]

To study OPV degradation under outdoor conditions, it is important to construct an accurate and reliable testing platform under various real outdoor environments. In 2006, such studies have been pioneered by Krebs and his collaborators, who have made an early‐stage testing platform equipped with a mounted thermocouple and a thermopile pyranometer with the OPV devices under test in a solar tracker.[177] In addition, comparing the degradation of devices in different regions is important because the geographical conditions significantly affect the efficiency and degradation of OPV devices. Krebs and other research groups[111, 112] conducted interlaboratory experiments designed to follow the ISOS‐O standard to compare the outdoor lifetime data; however, small errors caused by the different setups could not be ignored. To perform outdoor lifetime studies readily and increase the reproducibility of outdoor lifetime measurements in different laboratories, a standard testing platform is necessary. Thus, Krebs and coworkers[113] developed a packaged outdoor OPV test suitcase in 2014 that enabled comparable outdoor tests in different laboratories. The development of this suitcase enabled round‐robin inter‐laboratory outdoor testing of OPV cells and modules by 46 laboratories in various countries. The recorded deviations in the measured data among different groups were limited to 5% when compared to the Si‐based reference device incorporated into the suitcase. Therefore, this round‐robin method offers a low‐cost and fast tool for sharing and testing samples effectively to enable outdoor lifetime testing of OPV devices in a reproducible manner.

Environmental parameters such as temperature, humidity, and irradiance vary simultaneously over time and over seasons, affecting device efficiency and stability. With increasing temperature, the JSC usually increases because of the enhanced thermally assisted hopping process; however, the VOC decreases in organic solar cells.[178, 179] In addition, according to the irradiance level, the normalized JSC and FF are constant under a given light intensity in ideal cases; however, the VOC can vary due to the different charge recombination depending on the irradiance intensity.[180] In addition, moisture also plays an important role in the degradation of active materials and OPV devices incorporating PEDOT:PSS/ITO and Ca/Al electrodes.[181, 182] Therefore, to understand the effects of complex environmental parameters with seasonal fluctuation, outdoor OPV tests need to be carried out with the temperature, humidity, and irradiance recorded simultaneously. As a representative work, in 2017, Lidzey and coworkers[183] reported outdoor stability measurements of PCDTBT:PC71BM‐based OPVs conducted longer than 1 year. The devices were prepared with the conventional configuration (ITO/HTL/active layer/Ca/Al) and encapsulated with epoxy glue and glass slides. The outdoor testing devices placed in protective sample chambers filled with an overpressure of nitrogen gas were subjected to a 450 h burn‐in process followed by a 6200 h Ts80 lifetime test, and the efficiency fluctuation was measured as a result of seasonal variations in temperature (Figure 10f,g). Lidzey and coworkers speculated that enhanced device degradation during the summer season resulted from a gradual weakening of the encapsulation or delamination of the device caused by repetitive thermal cycles. The same group[184] reported a similar outdoor test with PFDT2BT‐8:PC71BM‐based devices for a period longer than 12 000 h, where a Ts80 lifetime longer than 10 000 h (420 days) was measured. They demonstrated that the operational lifetime of the devices was approximately dependent on the overall optical radiation dose. In 2019, Cardozo and coworkers[185] investigated the influence of irradiation and temperature on photovoltaic parameters. Moreover, through theoretical modeling and continuous tests (with a fixed voltage), they calculated the average daily power generation (in Wh day−1) of modules on the basis of the outdoor irradiation profile each day. For example, in the case of a P3HT:PCBM‐based OPV module (area of 72 cm2), ≈1 Wh day−1 was estimated with irradiance of 5500 Wh m−2 (Recife, Brazil), which corresponds to a daily power generation yield of 2.5%.

Although several D/A blend systems have been tested for outdoor stability,[184, 186-188] most outdoor stability tests have been limited to P3HT (or PCDTBT) systems with fullerene acceptors.[107, 111, 112, 177, 183, 189-193] Notably, Ge and coworkers fabricated a large‐area (216 cm2) OPV module based on PTB7‐Th:PC71BM with an initial PCE of 5.63% and tested under the outdoor environment (average temperature of 15.24 °C, average RH of 77.23%, and daily average irradiance of 738.65 W m−2). They employed 4,4′‐(((methyl(4‐sulphonatobutyl)ammonio)bis(propane‐3,1‐diyl))bis(dimethyl‐ammoniumdiyl))bis‐(butane‐1‐sulfonate) (MSAPBS) as an ETL in the regular device configuration resulted in better stability (the efficiency decay is less than 30% for 60 days) than that exhibited by the control device with LiF.[194] Currently, the outdoor device lifetime test are as long as 2 years and the initial PCEs are 5–6% based on fullerene acceptors. The long‐term stability test results reported in the literature longer than 700 h are listed in Table 4 and Figure 1. The outdoor tests should be extended to newly developed highly efficient D/A blends for further enhancement of stability and efficiency. Recently, novel nonfullerene acceptors have been developed, resulting in devices with PCEs as high as 17–18% with improved optical/electrical/morphological properties compared with fullerene‐based acceptors.[40]

Table 4. Long‐term stability studies on OPVs presented in the literature longer than 700 h (Atmo.: atmosphere. Encap.: encapsulation. RP: remaining performance)

In particular, a number of studies reported that OPV devices with nonfullerene acceptors exhibit better photo‐, thermal‐, and ambient stabilities than fullerene‐based OPV devices.[5, 8, 93, 99, 145, 146, 187, 188, 195] Therefore, further investigations of outdoor device stability need to be extended to new candidates of nonfullerene OPV devices, which show high photovoltaic performance, together with noticeable device stability in laboratory tests.

Conclusion and Perspectives: Because of the unique intrinsic physical properties of organic electronic materials, including polymers, large‐area OPV devices are amenable to high‐throughput production using roll‐to‐roll printing processes. However, because the mechanism of BHJ film formation using spin coating differs from that of roll‐to‐roll‐applicable non‐spin coating techniques, a substantial morphology change and efficiency drop are normally observed when high‐performing OPV devices based on a small cell are prepared as large‐area devices. Therefore, we need to develop organic materials and appropriate non‐spin coating methods for realizing high performance and stable large‐area OPV devices. In addition, large‐area OPVs such as all solution processable flexible OPV modules are relatively susceptible to degradations by moisture and thermal stress and the stability issue is more critical compared with the small cells.

Organic materials with high thickness tolerability are necessary for OPV scale‐up. Donor and acceptor materials which exhibit appropriate BHJ morphology with high crystallinity and domain purity are advantageous for improving charge carrier mobility in the thick‐film (>200 nm) OPV device and for increasing device photocurrent without sacrificing the FF. However, many high crystalline polymers are not applicable to solution processes for large‐area devices because their strong intermolecular interactions induce polymer agglomeration and disturb the formation of homogeneous BHJ films. To achieve high solution processability, there have been research effort to synthesize random terpolymers to decrease the regularity of the chemical structure and thus suppress excessively large aggregation. Nonetheless, the tendency to form semicrystalline domains with nanoscale phase separation is still conserved. Recently, nonfullerene acceptor‐based OPV achieved high FF using a thick active film in spite of relatively low hole and electron mobilities; appropriate phase separation with a percolating network structure between donors and nonfullerene acceptors plays an important role in suppressed bimolecular recombination in a thick film. Therefore, this approach has been emerged as one of the most promising strategy for realizing efficient thick‐film OPVs at a large‐area.

Appropriate non‐spin coating techniques should be developed to fabricate large‐area OPV devices. As we addressed, the BHJ film morphology is determined by both the thermodynamic equilibrium and the kinetically trapped state related to solvent evaporation. In particular, phase separation in the BHJ film occurs by two different pathways (i.e., spinodal decomposition and crystal nucleation and growth); however, their relative contributions to the phase separation differ depending on the material and the solution processing techniques Therefore, the complex phenomena that occur during deposition need to be fundamentally understood; for example, mechanistic studies of the in situ morphology evolution during coating have provided important insights into polymer phase separation and packing dynamics occurring in BHJ films. Most of all, when preparing high performing organic materials, large‐area applicable non‐spin coating techniques such as meniscus‐guided coating should be developed in an interdisciplinary manner; although processing techniques and chemical structures of the polymers have been demonstrated to individually contribute to improvements in OPV efficiency, collaborative studies of the two factors will bring breakthroughs that enable the successful transitioning of high‐performing OPV small cells to reliable large‐area cells that can be produced on an industrial scale.

Long‐term device stability remains as an important research challenge for realizing commercially applicable large‐area OPVs. Though extrinsic OPV degradation can be suppressed with encapsulation, the problem of low stability caused by intrinsic decomposition such as thermal degradation and photoreaction requires a fundamental solution; we should elucidate the degradation mechanisms of each OPV device component and develop intrinsically stable photoactive materials and the processing methods that can exclude the degradation factors. In this regard, when developing new high performing nonfullerene acceptors, it is highly important to intensively study the effects of their chemical structures on long‐term device stability under various thermal or (and) light‐soaking conditions in air. In addition, for successful development of all solution processable flexible large‐area OPVs, we need to find fundamental solutions to tackle the problems of residual processing solvents and moisture intrusion through a flexible substrate. Besides, corrosive hole‐transporting materials should be replaced with stable and high performing alternatives.

We emphasize that the development of OPV materials and processing techniques and research into long‐term device stability need to be performed together, i.e., it is important to synthesize active materials that exhibit not only good solution processability for producing large‐area films but also high chemical stability under illumination conditions. Additionally, there remains important issues for the development of the OPVs from the laboratory‐scale into commercial‐ scale prototypes; for mass production of OPV modules using roll‐to‐roll solution process, we should persistently develop cost‐effective synthetic methods of organic materials in a large quantity and replace chlorinated solvents, which are most widely used for OPV device fabrication, with nontoxic solvents including non‐halogenated and non‐aromatic solvents. In regard of the OPV stability, research effort needs to be focused not only on preparing OPV materials, but on developing flexible substrates with sufficient barrier properties or flexible device encapsulants. Also, we should develop a comprehensive and reliable method to assess the long‐term outdoor stability of OPVs using indoor tests conducted under accelerated conditions as well as the outdoor test. Once these challenges are addressed, the transition of OPV technology from lab‐scale research to industrial applications will be greatly accelerated and thus, we can succeed in the commercialization of highly efficient and stable OPVs as a low‐cost green energy source.
