Abstract: Elemental 2D materials with fascinating characteristics are regarded as an influential portion of the 2D family. Iodine is as a typical monoelemental molecular crystal and exhibits great prospects of applications. To realize 2D iodine, not only is it required to separate the weak interlayer van der Waals interactions, but also to reserve the weak intramolecular halogen bonds; thus, 2D iodine is still unexploited until now. Herein, atomically thin iodine nanosheets (termed “iodinene”) with the thickness around 1.0 nm and lateral sizes up to hundreds of nanometers are successfully fabricated by a liquid‐phase exfoliation strategy. When used for the cathode of rechargeable sodium‐ion batteries, the ultrathin iodinene exhibits superb rate properties with a high specific capacity of 109.5 mA h g−1 at the high rate of 10 A g−1 owing to its unique 2D ultrathin architecture with remarkably enhanced pseudocapacitive behavior. First‐principles calculations reveal that the diffusion of sodium ions in few‐layered iodinene changes from the original horizontal direction in bulk to the vertical with a small energy barrier of 0.07 eV because of the size effect. The successful preparation and intensive structural investigation of iodinene paves the way for the development of novel iodine‐based science and technologies.

Main: Currently, atomically thin 2D nanomaterials are attracting intensive interests due to their intriguing structures, fascinating properties, and promising application prospects.[1] Among various kinds of 2D nanomaterials, elemental 2D materials with the simplest chemical constitutions are a prominent portion of the 2D family owing to their extraordinary characteristics.[2] For instance, graphene (group‐IVA), as the most representative elemental 2D material, is a zero‐bandgap semimetal with high electron mobility, Young's modulus and thermal conductivity.[3] Unlike graphene composed of carbon atoms arranged in a honeycombed network, silicene, germanene and stanine (group‐IVA) adopt a buckled hexagonal honeycomb lattice with electronic structure depending on the substrate, chemical functionalization and strain.[4] Borophene (group‐IIIA) is proved to have metallic characteristics with highly anisotropic electronic properties.[5] Different from semimetallic graphene and metallic borophene, black phosphorene (group‐VA) is a 2D elemental semiconducting material with adjustable bandgap and anisotropic in‐plane properties.[6] In more recent years, several groups reported the theoretical study and experimental fabrication of arsenene, anitmonene, and bismuthene (group‐VA), selenene and tellurene (group‐VIA).[2, 7] In addition to their intrinsic properties, elemental 2D nanomaterials also exhibit tremendous potential for field‐effect transistor,[8] catalysis,[9] sensing,[10] bioimaging,[11] photothermal therapy,[12] energy storage,[13] thermoelectric devices,[14] and other applications.[15] Nevertheless, theoretical prediction and successful preparation of new elemental 2D nanomaterials are still being intensively pursued, and the exploration of elemental 2D nanomaterial in the group‐VIIA is scarcely concerned.[16]

Iodine, as a prototypical haloid element in group‐VIIA, is a molecular solid in which significant electronic interactions occur between the two next‐nearest neighboring atoms and the connection of intramolecular molecules is closer than that of interlaminar molecules.[17] It belongs to the Cmca space group with neighboring layers stacked together via weak van der Waals interlayer interactions along the a‐axis (Figure 1a).[18] Moreover, iodine is one of the essentially mineral nutrients in life with good biocompatibility and nontoxicity attributes, high abundance in ocean resource and low cost, possessing the widespread application in chemical analysis, high pressure physics and biomedical therapy.[19] Especially, iodine is a promising cathode material for attractive rechargeable batteries due to its high theoretical capacity of 211 mA h g−1 with a relatively high working voltage.[20] Nevertheless, iodine‐based batteries are confronted with sluggish kinetics and poor rate capabilities, as well as fast capacity decay which is caused by the low electrical conductivity and high solubility of iodine in organic electrolyte.[20] To address these dilemmas, we propose few‐layer iodine nanosheets with shorter alkali‐metal‐ion diffusion pathways, higher utilization efficiency of redox sites and easy hybridization of carbon materials which will hold great potential for high‐performance rechargeable batteries.[21] However, the synthesis of atomically thin iodine nanosheets has not been reported until now.

Herein, we report the successful preparation of few‐layer iodine nanosheets (termed iodinene) via a sonochemical liquid‐phase exfoliation approach. The weak van der Waals force gives a chance to delaminate the bulk iodine into few layer nanostructures. The ultrathin feature with a large aspect ratio enables them as building blocks to construct uniform and stable rechargeable batteries electrodes with carbon framework. The composited electrodes exhibit excellent electrochemical performance with superb rate properties owing to the unique few‐layer 2D nanostructure with special sodium‐ion‐diffusion kinetic.

A sonochemical approach was employed to prepare iodine nanostructure from its bulk precursor (Figure 1b). Deionized water was selected as an appropriate solvent to exfoliate iodine due to its high surface energy up to 40.9 dynes cm−1 and low solubility of iodine (0.34 mg mL−1).[22, 23] The bulk iodine is a dark purple powder with a plate‐like morphology and metallic luster (Figure S1, Supporting Information). After the sonication exfoliation in deionized water without any surfactant and subsequent centrifugation to remove unpeeled residue, the resultant solution shows a stable dispersion with the Faraday‐Tyndall effect, suggesting the presence of highly monodisperse nanostructures in an aqueous solution (Figure S1, Supporting Information). The transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image clearly demonstrates that the as‐prepared product is composed of 2D nanosheets with a lateral dimension ranging from 50 to 300 nm (Figure 2a).

The structure, composition and surface chemical states of the nanoflakes were investigated by X‐ray diffraction (XRD) and X‐ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), and the results reveal no other impurities. All the XRD reflection peaks can be indexed as a pure orthorhombic phase of iodine (JCPDS card no. 43‐0304) with lattice constants a = 7.4 Å, b = 4.5 Å and c = 9.6 Å.[24] By further observation, (200) and (400) peaks have high intensity magnitude than others, suggesting a preferred orientation (Figure 2b).[25] Binding energy peaks of I3d3/2 and I3d5/2 are located at 619.0 and 630.4 eV, respectively, which are 11.4 eV apart, demonstrating that the valence state of iodine is zero (Figure 2c).[26] The surface morphology in low‐magnification bright‐field scanning transmission electron microscopy (BF STEM) (Figure 2d) shows an intact iodine nanosheet with smooth surface. The composition was studied using energy‐dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) elemental mapping (Figure 2e), showing that iodine element is uniformly distributed throughout the whole nanosheet, further confirming the formation of pure few‐layer iodinene (FLI2). The high‐resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) and selected area electron diffraction (SAED) of the FLI2 and bulk iodine can match each other, but cannot match the lattice pattern of an orthorhombic phase iodine, which is probably due to the phase‐transition of molecular‐crystal iodine on exposure to a high‐energy electron beam of TEM (Figure S2a–d, Supporting Information).[19, 27]

The atomic force microscopy (AFM) image (Figure 2f) and height profiles (Figure 2g) reveal the average topographic height of as‐prepared FLI2 is 0.8–1.2 nm corresponding to 2–3 layers of iodine. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations were used to simulate the relatively stable crystal structures of FLI2. Using trilayer iodine as an example (Figure 2h), it is a buckling iodine with I2 molecule bonding and forming a bending iodine chain along [001] axis, as well as rotating around [010] axis, which deviates from the conventional van der Waals type structure of bulk iodine. In addition, to explore the morphology and composite variation of FLI2 over time, TEM, AFM and XRD have been carried out after keeping it in the aqueous solution for one month, and no obvious change was observed in the lateral dimensions, thickness, and composition of the nanosheets, substantiating its excellent stability under aqueous condition (Figures S3a–f, S4, Supporting Information). Above all, it can be concluded that the atomically thin iodine nanosheets have been successfully synthesized by a facile strategy under mild condition, and such ultrathin attribute can provide high specific surface area and fully utilize the redox‐active sites, making it a promising material for high‐performance rechargeable batteries.

As a proof of concept, FLI2‐cathode‐based sodium ions (Na+) batteries (SIBs) were assembled, and their corresponding electrochemical performance was investigated. In order to improve the conductivity and anti‐solvent ability of the iodine‐based electrode, graphene oxide and carbon nanotube are introduced to construct a flexible and free‐standing carbon nanotube‐graphene oxide‐iodinene (CNT@GO@iodinene) nanocomposite (Figures S5–S8, Supporting Information). To optimize the Na+ ions storage performance, we investigated the cathode electrode with different mass fractions of iodine and obtained the optimal specific capacity of 223.2 mA h g−1 (based on the mass of iodine) at mass fraction of 43.9%, and 98.0 mA h g−1 by total mass of composited electrode materials (Figure S9a,b, Supporting Information). As the iodine loadings increased further, the specific capacity of the composite decreased, since the excessive iodine would reduce the mechanical toughness and electrical conductivity of electrode film. To balance the capacity and cycling performance of composited electrode, the iodine mass fraction of 43.9% was chosen. Additionally, this mass fraction and the specific capacity of FLI2 are highly comparative to the previous reported iodine‐based composited electrodes (Table S1, Supporting Information). And it should be noted that carbon skeleton contributes slightly to the whole capacity (Figure S10, Supporting Information). If not otherwise stated, the subsequent electrochemical tests were undertaken with the best proportion of composite materials.

Benefiting from the unique 2D structure, the FLI2 delivers a high reversible specific capacity around 250 mA h g−1 at a current density of 0.1 A g−1 with a Coulombic efficiency (CE) of ≈98.0%, and 109.5 mA h g−1 at an even high rate of 10 A g−1, and the capacity recovers to 209.9 mA h g−1 when the current density finally returns to 0.1 A g−1 (Figure 3a; Figure S11, Supporting Information). Then the CE reaches 100% as the current density increasing to 1.0 A g−1, indicating that the sodiation and desodiation processes are kinetically fast and close to equilibrium. And when the current density exceeds 3 A g−1, the CE obviously fluctuates, which might result from the remarkable morphology variation of Na metal surface[28] and relative short data collection time with unavoidable fluctuation operated at high current densities.[29] In addition, the FLI2 cathode shows nearly no serious capacity loss from 6 A g−1 to 10 A g−1, exhibiting superb rate capabilities. By contrast, the capacity retention of bulk iodine is much low at high current rates because of longer Na+‐ion diffusion pathways and the poor intrinsic electrical conductivity (Figure 3b). Furthermore, the rate capability of our FLI2 electrode is far beyond that of most previously reported excellent cathode materials (Figure 3c),[30-40] such as Prussian blue and its analogues (NaxFe[Fe(CN)6]y), layered metal oxides (P2‐Na0.7CoO2, Na3Ni2SbO6), polyanionic compounds (Na3V2(PO4)2F), and iodine. In addition, the composite electrode retained a high capacity of 84.5 mA h g−1 even after 5000 cycles at 5 A g−1 (Figure S12, Supporting Information), and the iodine element was still homogeneously distributed onto carbon skeleton (Figures S13 and S14, Supporting Information). Furthermore, the 2D structure of iodinene remains intact after 5000 cycles (Figure S15 and S16, Supporting Information), substantiating its long‐term cycle stability at a high current density and a promising practical application. As a contrast, when CNT@GO were replaced by Super P conductive carbon black (Super P) and poly(vinylidene fluoride) (PVDF) binder to fabricate composite electrodes (Super P@PVDF@FLI2) with different weight ratios, the capacity of Super P@PVDF@FLI2 quickly faded after a few cycles due to the serious shuttle effect of iodine species (I2, NaIx) in the electrolyte (Figure S17, Supporting Information). Therefore, the enhanced capacities and cycling performance of CNT@GO@iodinene electrodes should be attributed to the strong FLI2 encapsulation ability of CNT@GO matrix to alleviate the dissolution of iodine species in organic electrolyte (Figure S18, Supporting Information).

To study the sodium storage mechanism of FLI2, ex situ Raman and XPS analysis at different charge and discharge states were performed (Figure 4a–c). As shown in Figure 4b, a distinct Raman peak at ≈113 cm−1 corresponding to v1 symmetric stretch of I3− ions can be seen in both discharge and charge processes, indicating NaI3 should be an intermediate product during the electrochemical reaction. In addition, two obvious peaks at 630.4 eV and 619.0 eV ascribed to I0 in the XPS pattern shift to the lower binding energy corresponding to I− after being discharged to 1.8 V, and revert to their original position when the voltage increases to 3.8 V, suggesting the reversible transformation between I0 and I− during the charge–discharge process (Figure 4c). Thus, the sodium storage mechanism of FLI2 is a conversion reaction between I2 and NaI via the intermediate product of NaI3, which can be described as follows:
3I2+2Na++2e−↔2NaI3
 (1)
NaI3+2Na++2e−↔3NaI
 
To better understand the high rate capability of the FLI2 electrode, its electrochemical reaction kinetics was investigated. A typical CV curve of the FLI2 electrode presents two pairs of reversible redox peaks located at 3.4/3.3V and 3.0/2.9V corresponding to I2/NaI3 and NaI3/NaI redox couples, respectively (Figure S19, Supporting Information).[41] With increasing scan rate from 0.4 to 7.0 mV s−1, the CV curves of the FLI2 preserve similar shapes with slight peak shifts, indicating excellent reaction kinetics (Figure 4d). Whereas owing to the relatively longer ion‐diffusion pathways and larger transfer resistance (Figure S20, Supporting Information), the CV curves of bulk iodine show distorted shape with no obvious redox peak at high scan rate (Figure 4e). Moreover, the correlation between obtained current (i) and scan rate (v) from the CV curves was further investigated according to the following equations:
𝑖=𝑎𝑣𝑏
 (3)
log(𝑖)=𝑏log(𝑣)+log (𝑎)
 (4)
where a and b are variable parameters. Specifically, the b values at a series of potentials are different for two kinds of electrodes (Figures 4f; S21, Supporting Information), and the b values of FLI2 approach 1.0 (ranging from 0.85 to 1.07), while bulk iodine are close to 0.5 (ranging from 0.63 to 0.68). The linear increase of currents versus scan rates of the FLI2 electrode reveals that its electrochemical reaction is mainly determined by the capacitive effect, namely, the redox‐reaction is a surface and/or near‐surface process.[42] On the contrary, the redox‐reaction kinetics of bulk iodine is dominated by Na+‐ion diffusion, demonstrating that iodine with few layers is endowed with the ability of fast discharge/charge versus its bulk counterpart.[43]
The fraction of capacitive contribution is further quantitatively analyzed by dividing the current response i at a fixed potential V into two sections of capacitive effects (k1v) and diffusion‐controlled reactions (k2v1/2),
𝑖 =𝑘1 𝑣 +𝑘2𝑣1/2
 (5)
Just as expected, the capacitive contribution ratio in FLI2 electrode is much larger than that in bulk counterpart. Meanwhile, as the scan rate increases, the role of capacitive contribution enlarges, while the diffusion contribution is depressed. At the scan rate of 7.0 mV s−1, the capacitive contribution tends to be at 80.6% for FLI2 electrodes, but only around 35.4% for bulk iodine (Figure 4g). Such results indicate that the ion‐diffusion controlled electrochemical behavior in pristine iodine electrode material converts to the surface or near‐surface reactions dominated process at high scan rates in FLI2, which is favorable for the outstanding high rate performance of the FLI2 electrodes.[44] And the corresponding schematic for the electrochemical reactions involved in CNT@GO@iodinene and CNT@GO@bulk iodine at different charge/discharge rates is showed in Figure S22, Supporting Information. In addition, the large Na+‐ion diffusion coefficient of CNT@GO@iodinene electrodes ranging from 10−11 to 10−10 cm2 s−1 derived by the galvanostatic intermittent titration technique (GITT) (Figure S23, Supporting Information) also accounts for the excellent rate performance.

To gain atomic‐level insights into the electrochemical properties of iodine cathode, we investigated the structural features and kinetics of Na+‐ion diffusion in different thicknesses of iodine by using the first‐principles calculations. Along the [001] direction, the II bond lengths of FLI2 become uniform, ≈2.95 Å, and thus the origin unit of I2 in bulk iodine was destroyed (Figure S24, Supporting Information). Second, the buckling iodine structures are inclined to form along [100] direction when the iodine thickness is less than four layers. As shown in Figure 5a,b, an obvious channel can be found in the [100] direction in trilayer iodine, and this feature does not appear for four‐layer. It can be considered that trilayer iodine is special flat bending iodine with the folded I chain rotated around [010] crystal axis. Figure 5c shows the maximally localized Wannier functions (MLWFs) for isolated I2 molecules in bulk iodine and binding I2 molecules in iodinene (bending part of FLI2), and the different bond polarization between the bulk iodine and FLI2 can be distinguished. As for the bulk one, the electrons are mainly distributed with I2 unit, while a large polarization for the iodinene occurs between atoms. These results reveal that the chemical bond polarization of iodine should play the vital role for the structure changes of FLI2.

Both the kinetics of Na+‐ion diffusion for the different number of layers were systematically investigated to gain further insight into the high rate capability of FLI2. As shown in Figure 5d, the calculated energy barriers of bilayer and trilayer iodine along vertical direction are much lower than those of horizontal direction. It is worth mentioning, the horizontal diffusion of Na+ ions is easier than the vertical diffusion of Na+ ions in bulk iodine, which is opposite to that of bilayer and trilayer iodine. As mentioned above, this feature can be understood by the existence of channel in the [100] direction. We can conclude that Na+ ions prefer to diffuse along vertical direction in FLI2. The smaller energy barriers of Na+‐ion diffusion in FLI2 mainly contributes to its high rate performance. The structural variation and different diffusion pathways of Na+ ions greatly enhance the electrochemical properties of iodine.

The charge difference density of initial state and final state during the sodiation process of trilayer iodine are shown in Figure S25, Supporting Information. The Na+ ions adsorption affects both the local charge density and the whole I atom chain, leading to the delocalized charge distribution, which further promotes the Na+‐ion diffusion in FLI2. Otherwise, the conductivity of FLI2 can be improved by Na+ ions adsorption, as the results of projected density of states (PDOS) shown in Figures S26–S29, Supporting Information. The gap states emerge in the PDOS of trilayer iodine when Na+ ions are adsorbed either on the surface or subsurface. However, in the four‐layer iodine, the gap states only appear in the PDOS when Na+ ions are adsorbed on the surface. In addition, no gap states are observed in the bulk iodine (Figure S30, Supporting Information). Different conductivity also affects the Na+‐ion diffusion in iodine crystal as number of layers varies. In brief, owing to the special structural features of FLI2, delocalized charge distribution and good conductivity of Na+ ions adsorbed FLI2 lead to fast Na+ ions insertion/extraction kinetics and significantly shorten the diffusion distance, which is highly effective in improving the electrochemical properties of FLI2.

In summary, the atomically thin iodine nanosheets (1.0 nm) have been successfully fabricated for the first time. It was introduced as a cathode material for NIBs, and delivered a high specific capacity of 241.0 mA h g−1 at a current density of 0.1 A g−1 and 109.5 mA h g−1 at an even high rate of 10 A g−1. The electrochemical reaction kinetic investigation of FLI2 demonstrates its redox reaction is mainly determined by the capacitive effect. First‐principles calculation results reveal the unique 2D structure of FLI2 with small Na+‐ion diffusion energy barrier and enhanced conductivity provides high‐speed Na‐diffusion channels to fast Na+ ions insertion/de‐insertion, which is favorable for its high rate performance. The first synthesized iodine nanosheets with intriguing electrochemical performance will encourage more efforts toward fundamental research and practical application of elemental 2D materials.